yes. so that makes me (inaudible). (speaking in foreign language) unidentified i'm a writer, yes. (speaking in foreign language) unidentified mazel tov. thank you, gentlemen. i've never felt so much like i'm masquerading as something i'm not. i am instinctively hostile to any kind of devotion. certainty is my enemy. you know, i'm all about doubt, questioning one's self and the nature of reality. constantly. when they grabbed hold of me and in a totally nonjudgmental way essentially, you know, god's happy to have you, you know, here you go. oh, man. you know. my treachery is complete. just because i was raised outside the faith with no particular attachment or loyalty to israel doesn't mean that plenty of people on this earth don't hate me in principle. i know that. but the state of israel, i never really knew what to think. first look around, it's like everybody says -- it's pretty. it's awesome. it's urban. sophisticated. hip. like southern california. only nicer. then you see the young draftees in the streets and you start to get the idea. this is jerusalem. yotam ottolenghi, and by newest you mean -- born here, now cooking in london, yotam ottolenghi is the widely known respected chef and co-author of the book "jerusalem." yes. it's a whole different animal, isn't it? so is there a historically provable answer to who invented it? right. so they can say hey, my great uncle was in syria at the time. hey, i remember distinctly -- right. right. as i so often do. (laughter) it's like jesus was here. i feel like i should be more something. a little bit. well, it's too late for me. great. you get your own crown of thorns? in answer to the question, what would jesus wear? oh no, no, no. that's just wrong. (laughter) (commercial break) israel is bordered by egypt, jordan, syria, and lebanon. in 1967, after the six-day war, israel took control of the gaza strip, the sinai peninsula, the west bank, the golan heights, and then next east jerusalem. in 2003, israel began construction on a wall along the green line representing the israeli-palestinian border. the wall now stretches 450 miles. when completed, it will span 700 miles. eighty-five percent of it in palestinian territory. on one hand, there's no doubt that the number of suicide bombings fell drastically. on the other, there's this. you cross from jerusalem into the west bank. also called judea, samaria, also called palestine. since 1967, half a million settlers have moved here, all in contravention of international law. many in contravention of israeli law, though in effect, it seems to make little difference. they're here and in ever-larger numbers. this is nolan (ph), one of our drivers from tel aviv, who i asked about the graffiti on this house near the settlements. so what is price tagging? unidentified intimidating. i mean, you put two targets on my house, i'm moving. this is eli, a settlement with a population of over 3,000, relatively isolated from the rest of israel. amiad cohen is the chief executive of the eli settlement and its former head of security. amiad cohen, chief executive, eli it's an unusual situation. a lot of your neighbors would very much like you to not be here. i'm guessing a lot of people would disagree with that statement. so from the high ground, you can see anybody walking at night. you could see from pretty far out. could you identify them after the fact? we drive to ma'ale levona, another settlement a few miles away. hot, sun-bleached, suburban feeling. behind its ring of electronic surveillance, censors and security, everything they feel they need. a school, public transportation, and a petting zoo. amichai luria has lived here for 23 years. he's a wine maker and amateur cook. wow. you're not kidding around. amichai luria, wine maker and where were you before here? so your parents brought you over at age 4? (inaudible) kids living in the relative comfort and familiarity of pennsylvania. heading off to what must have, at least in part of their mind, would seem an uncertain. if i'm understanding it correctly, you're -- the bible, it's all right there. it all happened here. that's sort of a nonnegotiable position. you've been here since '90. you look over the edge there, there's an arab village right -- at any point during that time, you ever go to anybody's house, sit down and eat? ever sat down at a muslim table? you host and everybody else -- but not there. so i've got to ask you about something that troubled me. coming up, the first house before you come up the drive to this village, the graffiti on the front -- unidentified the targets spray painted on. unidentified whodunit? unidentified kids? unidentified i understand why kids would do it. given what you told me earlier, identifying the perpetrators within the realm of possibility? unidentified why not paint it over? unidentified elsewhere in the west bank, just outside of ramallah, meet betty saadeh and mona ennab. two members of a group of women who call themselves the speed sisters. the first all-female palestinian racing team. betty saadeh, speed sisters racing hi. i'm tony. good to meet you. do you find that people underestimated you at first? now they know. yes. so are things getting better? staying the same, or worse? the local police would prefer them off the streets for obvious reasons. but the track here, such as it is, has its drawbacks. it's basically a parking lot across from the ofer detention center. what do they think about this next door? do they ever give you problems? the canister hit you. have you thought of challenging the israelis to put up a team? what if they come over here? ok. silly question. (commercial break) it's right there for all to see. and it feels like something out of a science fiction film. this is the wall. from the other side, from inside this place, for instance, the aida refugee camp in the district of bethlehem, it doesn't feel like anything other than what it is. a prison. abed abusrour is the founder of the al rowwad children's theatre center. abed abusrour, founder, al rowwad children's theatre so this has been here since 1950. first impressions of the camp, there's a remarkable number of kids. children play in the streets beneath walls covered in images of martyrs, plane hijackers, political prisoners. six thousand people, of that number, 66 percent are under the age of 18. i don't care where that is in the world, that's pretty much a recipe for unruly behavior, i think would be the best. abed takes me to the camp's martyrs quarter to be fed by (inaudible). she runs a women's collective offering palestinian cooking classes, helping her provide for six children, one of whom is disabled. in america, kids grow up with pop stars, sports players. never a politician. i mean, it's unthinkable for a child to look up to a politician or to look up to a military figure. sports or entertainment. here, kids 4 or 5 years old every day, they're looking at somebody who, you know, brought down a plane. i'm not questioning why that is. do you think it's helpful? you can almost believe for a minute or two that some kind of peace, some kind of reconciliation, meeting of the minds, sanity is possible after you visit majda. it's a restaurant in what looks like an idyllic village in the judean hills, about 20 minutes from jerusalem. it feels like an alternate universe for a number of reasons. michal baranes is jewish. yaakov barhum is muslim, from a nearby village. they're partners, co-owners of majda, and also married. they're unsurprisingly friends of yotam. together they grow and raise much of what's used in their kitchen. their food reflects both their different backgrounds and their commonalities. yes, here we go. so you grew up in this town. yaakov barhum, owner, majda where did you grow up? michal baranes, owner, majda near the beach. not the neighborhood. (laughter) how did that go down the families? now good. in the beginning, not so much. farm eggs with peppers from your garden. tomato. that looks awesome beyond words. it is incredibly beautiful here. i don't know why i didn't expect that. i do. roasted tomatoes, okra. so generally speaking, who lives in this area? mostly arab -- ethnically arab in this part of town? (crosstalk) and this -- yes. it's good. i just had this incredibly delicious meal completely oblivious to the fact that it's entirely vegetarian. if any of the vegetarian restaurants in new york served food that tasted anywhere near this, i would be -- i would actually go there. i'd consider it. (laughter) and this? it's really intensely delicious. are you hopeful? getting in and out of gaza from israel is truly one of the most surreal travel experiences you could have on earth. over 1.5 million people live in gaza. most of them considered refugees. meaning they're not from the place they're compelled to live now. in most cases, they're either prohibited from or unable to leave. israel decides who comes and goes. what gets in and what stays out. apart from journalists, aid workers, emergency responders, very few people are allowed to cross into gaza. in 2005, the israeli defense forces left the gaza strip and all israeli settlers were removed. now inside gaza, hamas is in charge. considered a terrorist organization by both the united states and israel, they got elected in 2006. this is laila haddad, a native gazan, journalist and author of "the gaza kitchen." laila haddad, "the gaza kitchen" could you envision what happens? right. the (inaudible) family owns a small farm in the (inaudible) area of the eastern gaza strip. (inaudible) sultan and her husband are unusual in that they cook together. this is not typical in this part of the world or in this culture. they use their own fresh-killed chickens to make the gazan classic maqluba. the traditional palestinian dish comprised of layers of fried eggplant, tomato, potatoes, caramelized onions, and chicken sauteed then simmered in a broth with nutmeg, cinnamon, cardimum, and rice. it's a big family. children, grandchildren, all living under the same roof, and it can get chaotic. so let's talk about food and eat food because it's just (inaudible). tell me, what do we have here? yes. please. wow. right. that it is. absolutely delicious. really, really good. keep cooking like this. it's really delicious. whatever you think is still there. will -- in your lifetime, i guess the first question would be, in your lifetime, will you be able to visit yahba? what -- go, go. (speaking in foreign language) what's he saying? laila's got something to show me. a watermelon salad she discovered on her recent trip here that's really piqued her interest. so off we go. i figured, this will take a minute. we arrived at what looks like a pretty serious gathering. this is a duwan, and we're soon joined by her um sultan's husband abu. all these guys are originally from (inaudible), now part of israel, so they're bound together by traditions and a way of life very different from here, where they've been relocated and lived since 1948. does he think he'll be able to go to his ancestral homeland in his lifetime, his children's lifetime? what's his guess? right in the coals? no. (laughter) many, if not most of these guys, are not too sympathetic to my country or my ethnicity, i'm guessing. but there's that hospitality thing. anywhere you go in the muslim world, it seems. no matter what, you feed your guests and do your best to make them feel at home. where does this dish come from? all the food i've had so far in gaza has been very different than in anything else i've had in the arab world. different flavor spectrum. one can be forgiven for thinking, when you see how similar they are, the two peoples, both of them cook with pride, eat with passion, love their kids, love the land in which they live or the land they dream of returning to, who live so close, who are locked in such an intimate, if deadly embrace, might somehow, some day, figure out how to live with each other. but that would be very mushy thinking indeed. those things in the end probably don't count for much at all. gatan galkowitz runs a restaurant just seven miles from the gaza strip. you and your family have paid the worst imaginable price. gatan galkowitz, gaza strip restaurant in some israeli towns and villages within close proximity of the gaza strip, bus stops double as bomb shelters, and air raid sirens warn of incoming missiles fired from less than a mile away. rockets and mortar shells have been known to fall from the sky in these parts and no one understands the consequences more than this man. you were not a fervent ideological zionist. you were not an orthodox jew. and yet here you are, at the spear point, right at the dip. here's your restaurant. there is a shelter. here you are. you know, i went to this settler community and i -- and i said to you, you know, they were nice. and you said, you said -- what did you say? you said, they're all nice. they're all nice, but if you scratch, if you push, they all want -- but they'll all say, throw them in the sea. the opportunities to do that here are very, very, very limited, it seemed. and i mean, one doesn't even have to speak metaphorically, because there is an actual wall. or a fence, depending on who you're talking to. it goes back to the 12th century. people try to jump the hill to the beautiful church to take the walk that michael corleone took. now and forever more it will be sort of the "godfather" theme park where they're just playing the "godfather" theme over and over. unidentified imagine not waking up every day. as one bus after another filled with japanese tourists go up there, oh, look, michael corleone got married there. oh, it's so fantastic. (music) it's one of the most beautiful places in europe, a place whose roots are very much the roots of the town where i live, but somehow i've never been able to get it right. to tell the story, any story of sicily. it's the biggest island in the mediterranean. two main towns of palermo and catania on opposite sides. i've done a show in palermo before. it was an epic goat rodeo, a failure of humiliating scale. this time i was going to get it right. there's the sicily we know from films -- an evocative, deeply felt history that's not quite reality but cool anyway, right? there's the simple fact of its location, tucked away under the boot of italy, part of but not really part of that country. its own language, culture, its own history of norman, arab, spanish, roman, turkish, egyptian interlopers, all leaving their mark and their influence. i grew up in new jersey which was pretty much sicily on the hudson. the italian-americans next door weren't from milan, i could tell you that much. i guess what i'm telling you is i figured this will be easy. villa monaci delle terre nere, a certified agriturismo, meaning it's a hotel, restaurant and working farm that in this case produces olive oil. how many acres of property do you have? guido alessandro, owner, villa monaci delle terre this is guido, the proprietor. wow. so that's where potatoes come from. how freaking hard can it be to make an awesome show in sicily? eat the nice food, drink the wine. in an idyllic villa in the countryside, outside catania. how low-impact can it get? so the plan was we go fishing. we get some fresh octopus, maybe some cuttlefish, explore the bounties of the surrounding waters, all while working on our tans. with a local chef, fishermen, man of the sea. he's experienced. he knows where to get it good. i love it. how do you say it in italian? ricci. yes. it's one of my favorite things to eat. this is turin, my host. what else is out there? octopus? nice. i'm thinking, really? are these prime fishing waters? i don't know about this. with all this boat traffic and all these people, so close to the action i can't see much of anything living down there. but i am famous for my optimism so i dutifully suited up for what was advertised as a three-hour cruise. so i get in the water, and i'm paddling around. and splash. suddenly there's a dead sea creature sinking slowly so the seabed in front of me. are they kidding me? i'm thinking, can this be happening? splash, there's another one. another rigor mortis half-frozen freaking octopus but it goes on. one dead cuttlefish, deceased octopus, frozen sea urchin after another, splash, splash, splash. each specimen drops among the rocks or along the sea floor, to be heroically discovered by turin moments later and proudly shown off to camera, like i'm not actually watching as this confederate in the next boat over hurls them into the water one after another. i'm no marine biologist, but i know dead octopus when i see one. pretty sure they don't drop from the sky and then sink straight to the bottom. strangely everyone pretends to believe the hideous sham unfolding before our eyes, doing their best to ignore the blindingly obvious. then they gave up and just dumped the whole bag of dead fish into the sea. at this point i begin desperately looking for signs of life, hoping that one of them would stir, become revived. i'm frantically swimming around the bottom littered with dead things looking for one that's still twitching so can i hold it up to the camera and end this misery, but, no, my shame will be absolute. for some reason i feel something snap, and i slide quickly into a spiral of near hysterical depression. is this what it's come to, i'm thinking, as another dead squid narrowly misses my head? almost a decade later back in the same country, and i'm still desperately staging fishing scenes, seeding the oceans with supermarket seafood, complicit in a shameful, shameful incident of fakery? but there i was, bobbing listlessly in the water. dead sea life sinking to the bottom all around me. you've got to be pretty immune to the world to not see some kind of obvious metaphor. i've never had a nervous breakdown before, but i tell you from the bottom of my heart something fell apart down there, and it took a long, long time after the end of this damn episode to recover. raw clams, abalone and a heart-warming beet sea surrounded by a gaggle of curious and hungry kids. it was at this point about the only positive way for turin to redeem himself. you'll notice, i'm not there. i'm sitting in a nearby cafe pounding one negrone after in a smoldering miserable rage. our evening meal will be at ture's place, (inaudible), which is just up the hill in turmina, but by the time dinner rolls around, i'm ripped to the -- did i mention it's my birthday? i've had three hours of bobbing around on a pitching boat, a couple more hours getting looped, two more hours lying on the sidewalk outside the restaurant while the crew hangs light so i'm gone, baby, gone. i don't remember any of this. any of it. unidentified it's good. a nice boat trip. a little swim. i would be told later that a gentleman named tomaso that joined me for dinner. also someone on the crew mentioned that his wife was present and that she didn't say much. presumable because this was not her preferred way to spend her birthday. hi. so that's the original? apparently there were these white olives harvested from some secret tree only ture knows about. maybe it's next to his secret fishing hole. there was great sicilian wine apparently, and apparently i drank quite a lot of it. there was bread and olive oil. abalone served raw in the shell, baby sardine called vionata (ph), also served raw with a splash of citrus and salt. thank you. unidentified right. unidentified why? is sicily, italy? unidentified should it be? (laughter) unidentified oh, look, my octopus. i remember personally catching that one. it was a mighty struggle, too. no, actually i don't. unidentified really? beautiful little shrimp. very tender, the octopus, very nice. and another traditional specialty. i'm told they call this tuna tartar. and cuttlefish, recognize you, my friend. now (inaudible) like this, how traditional is this to sicily? always? but fisherman only, fishing communities only or in restaurants? always since long as you've been alive. you go to a restaurant you see crudo like this? so it's not like this japanese influence, but the japanese sort of gave everybody permission to eat traditional foods, their own traditional foods. what are the great mother sicilian classic dishes? unidentified ok, that's -- that's with the sardine. this i like. i even remember it. pasta (inaudible), actually a true sicilian classic made with fennel, pine nuts, saffron and anchovy. served alongside some sardines that have been curing in chestnuts and salt for days, then lightly fried in oil. unidentified no problem. i must have slump back to bed somehow, collapsed in a sodden drunken heap of self-loathing. i would ordinarily have turned on the porn challenge and maybe loaded up on prescription meds. but there's no tv at the agriturismo. (commercial break) i love the films "godfather 1" and "godfather 2" but they had nothing to do with any organized crime from reality. they're opera. magnificent opera but basically a morality tale about loyalty and destroying the things you claim to love and want to protect. actual organized crime members generally speaking a bunch of spectacularly (ph) uneducated lazy ass sociopaths who have no problem stealing from their own harder working neighbors. here in sicily they are interested and less glamorous than gambling and prostitution. they are and have and traditionally have been a gigantic parasitical organization, one that has now grown to be of mere equal size as its host. mary taylor simeti is originally from new york, but she's been living here in palermo for half a century now. she's a food writer and at one time a reformer for social justice which is a dicey thing to be here. you've been here all this time? well, why? mary taylor simeti, food piccolo napoli is a restaurant like a lot of others around here except for the quality of its food. tell me about where are, first of all. we start with some typical things, the kind of things i deeply love, the kind of simple good things that make me happy. panelli which is a fritter made from chickpeas, some caponata, a sweet and sour eggplant dish, kind of like ratatouille but more arab in influence. a plate of olives husband white wine produced from a small batch vineyard run by mary and her husband. this is a panelli? yes. this is what i've been waiting for. this is what i wanted sicily to be, something to soothe my shattered soul. it doesn't take much, a bowl of good pasta. in this case the famous spaghetti al nero di sepia, spaghetti and cuttlefish, also some (inaudible) pasta with swordfish, eggplant and tomatoes. oh, beautiful. perfect. perfect pasta. very happy with that. more. that's a lot. but not everybody pays the bite. a small but growing coalition of businesses have joined a group called addio pizzo (ph), a grassroots organization taking a stand against the mafia's traditional mere total control over the food chain, from farm to table. i come out of the restaurant business in new york. you got taxed with every laundry order every time they took your trash away. it was built in to all your basic services. a guy comes by. given that that's a pretty straightforward situation, some of these guys who banded together for addio pizzo, i mean, what happens, the guy shows up and says i'm not paying you. what happens next? right. right. right. i mean, who is more destructive worldwide? i mean, yes, you can make a very good argument. right. i know what you're saying. you're saying you're not so sure that a mafia-free italy would be that much more functional? i'm not so sure. really. it has changed. in 2007 there were only 160 addio pizzo members, now over 800. pretty cool considering we're talking about a group who have demonstrated no regret or hesitation in killing judges, politicians, police, prosecutors. back to catania, and when you're talking late-night dining options, you're talking one thing. the enticing smell of smoke wafting through the streets, a smell that's enticingly equine. i smell rainbow dash. anthony and marco, a couple of sicilians and aficionados of (inaudible). unidentified oh, right here? unidentified so right over there you can bet on a horse? unidentified right. unidentified cycle of life. all right. so why horse? where does this tradition come from? unidentified because? unidentified right. unidentified i'll never forget. (laughter) look at this side of the meat. it's yellow, it's not white. when it's yellow, it means that the horse has been breeded, eating fresh grass. perfecto. ok. thanks. prepare and go. unidentified it's good. unidentified as you wish. whatever. unidentified whatever, i'll try anything. unidentified right. unidentified horse. it is very tasty. let's put it this way. when my daughter asks me for a pony, i'm bringing her here, pointing at that grill and saying here is your pony. (commercial break) parco delle madonie is a national park and within that is this free range pig farm. they breed these special heritage pigs here, the black boar of nedbrodi. a combination of wild sicilian boar and domesticated swine thought to have been brought here from spain long ago, this breed of pig is raising the profile of the pig here. unidentified but any good-tasting high-quality pig, the secret is largely what were they fed? how did they live? were they happy? unidentified you should be shooting something. unidentified a poorly fed pig who lived his life in squalor, stress and fear makes for bad pork. this is why we should treat animals well, not just because that's the nice thing to do, but because it makes them provably more delicious. chestnuts, acorns, roots and stuff foraged from the hills, supplemented by some nice fattening grain during the winter months when wild food is less easy and less plentiful. unidentified right. unidentified i like pigs. not to hang out with, to eat. i don't have a tattoo of a pig or anything, but i like them fine, and when given the opportunity to shoot one in the brain or see one shot in the brain so that i may suck on its entrails and other parts, i'm down. that's what is called cheering me up from some manic depression. bang, and this pig is like pauly, you won't see him no more. even with the brain dead, the heart still goes on beating, sort of like pick a kardashian. in the case, however, the last few beats of the heart are absolutely necessary to pump all that red, red carve in a bucket for sanguinacco. the salt helps keep it from coagulating prematurely. there's a kardashian joke there somewhere. kim gets ready for the big day. it's date night at khloe's house. real housewife gets ready for summer. grooming tips from theresa guidice. i got a million of them. let's hope kanye never has to see this. unidentified then get to work. unidentified all those good bits, the lungs, kidneys, they get cooked slowly in fat with garlic, chili pepper, a little wine. is the meat also the liver? so it's interior with a little bit of fat? unidentified it's a pork confit. unidentified oh, that's pretty. meanwhile the intestinal casings get filled with blood and gently poached until creamy bloody delicious. and a nice spread of homemade cured meats, local cheese and homemade wine. let the party begin. so what do we have here? let's identify these products. capicolo. unidentified that's the spanish -- unidentified lardo. pancetta. oh, that looks good. unidentified the bread. unidentified and this cheese? (crosstalk) unidentified and what do you call that dish? (crosstalk) unidentified right. beautiful. oh, it's good. unidentified indeed. oh, yes. unidentified it's good. for me the ricotta, it's really good. unidentified you think of sicily, you think of family, you think of food. this is more like it. (commercial break) unidentified catania, the early morning market. it's been going on for longer than america has as a country. it's old, old italia. do they know you here? do you shop here often? unidentified this is not tomaso's first trip to the market by a long shot. his mom is a regular. she comes here almost every day. thanks. unidentified they do lamb? unidentified this is what the market is best known for, seafood. unidentified yes. unidentified oh, those are the tiny, tiny little clams. unidentified so i see sepia? baby -- unidentified swordfish. i'm joining tomaso for lunch today. mom's cooking, so we've got to do some shopping. (crosstalk) they look beautiful. unidentified the color is beautiful. unidentified and baby sardines. unidentified i'll tell you. unidentified saukernaut? just blood, no onion, no spice, nothing? a little salt. a little pepper. you squeeze it? unidentified no, open. oh, man. unidentified oh, that's good. usually i don't like it plain, i like it in a sauce and spicy. that's very tasty. looks like hell. tastes like heaven. if you like this, you're sicilian. (laughter) unidentified i don't have any grandparents. my mom, i guess she cooks, but the last time she ever invited me for dinner was like 1972 so given that tragic, dysfunctional, too much information kind of history is it any mystery why i'm always on the lookout for grandma? anybody's grandma will do. hell, i've been known to cruise rural state highways looking for hitch-hiking grannies to abduct so they'll cook for me. and given my fragile emotional state it makes perfect sense that i'd dragoon tomaso's mom into making me a nice lunch. is that heartwarming or like creepy and sad? hey. it smells good in here. unidentified cheers. unidentified need any help chopping parsley? oh, perfect. for lunch we've got the shrimp and sardines from earlier at the market, but first this. just grab one? it's like arancini but with hole owed out potatoes. filled with cheese, breaded and fried. delicious. unidentified yes. unidentified right. unidentified just in case. this is sicily, after all. and this is the classic starter. also a bread and tomato salad. unidentified that's old school. unidentified right. it's really good. really, really good. that's sicily right there. unidentified fresh shrimp sauteed in garlic, butter and herbs. that every great and enlightened culture, when they are confronted with the shrimp or a prawn, fry away. unidentified yes. so typical day, when you were 15 years old what did you eat for lunch? unidentified pasta and meat -- unidentified pasta and fish. unidentified watch this. zip the bone right out. out comes all the bone. who needs a knife? sardines filleted neatly, sauteed in garlic and oil. a little red pepper. that's a beautiful thing right there. i'll tell you, another two hours here i'll be speaking italian. well, speak sicilian. yes, you have to eat it hot. this is very nice. if you don't like this, there's really no hope for you. unidentified everything is -- unidentified so happy. this is a delicious meal. and to eat in this beautiful home with some really good home cooked food. (commercial break) my last night in sicily. and after this i'm going back to new york, crawling under my bed and adopting the fetal position for, like, six weeks. i may look normal -- ok, i don't exactly. but i'm not barking uncontrollably or running around shrieking with my pants wrapped around my head which is what my instincts are telling me i should be doing. to me one of life's great joys is cheese. no, i'm eating cheese. which makes me happy. always. and drinking wine. good wine. and a hell of a lot of it. and i'll just make it over the hump with any luck at all. we have a mozzarella here, a (inaudible). (crosstalk) ture joins me for a final meal along with antonio, guido and guido's girlfriend ara. this is an agriturismo. this is not a concept that exists in america, but it is a concept that should exist. ok, now please explain what it is. penne, sun dried tomatoes, zucchini, all from the farm. oh, man that looks good. unidentified whoa, some nice rabbit, olive oil, also from the farm. more wine. i might just make it. this is called (inaudible). it's bitter. if you talk about italy, it is the most interesting aspect of italian cuisine. i mean, that's just gastronomically but philosophically because it is a philosophical thing. life is too good. i need a little bitterness to remind myself of the internal tragedy of our existence. unidentified one final attempt before i go to extract something meaningful on what it means to be sicilian. what's wrong with these people in the north? unidentified that's the meanest thing anyone can say. right. unidentified in the end, it all comes back to the "godfather." we go up this beautiful mountain, this incredible town. it goes back to the 12th century. there are few places on earth more beautiful. but we are sitting in one of the -- it was like a "godfather" theme park. look, michael corleone got married there. i want -- unidentified michael had many options. he destroyed his family. then everybody, everything he touched. it's fair? he didn't -- it up. no. the missile crisis, duck and cover, hide under your desk, kids, cover yourselves with wet newspaper because we're all going to die. unidentified and this guy, always in the fatigues, underlining with every appearance that we were two nations in a never-ending state of war. barack obama, president of the united what about the sushi? what's going on in this country, man? unidentified however you feel about the government, however you feel about the last 55 years, there aren't any places in the world that look like this. i mean, it's utterly enchanting. unidentified there is no doubt in my mind that somewhere in the offices of like the four seasons hotel chain, they're looking at the sea front and thinking, you know, one of these days. you know, and cruise ships, you know, what happens then? unidentified is this an inevitable march of progress? am i being a snob? unidentified right. unidentified the place is very popular. unidentified who comes here? unidentified a ceviche of dogfish with pickled vegetables. loin of pork, pan-seared with yucca and a riff on a traditional orange sauce with garlic and coriander. (on i guess i'm asking, how do you keep it real when you'll all probably be millionaires in a few years? unidentified yes. unidentified yes. unidentified doesn't matter? unidentified more backers (ph). (end videotape) (commercial break) (begin videotape) bourdain right. unidentified in the early 1990s, while researching a biography of che guevara, he and his family moved to cuba and ended up staying for three years. (on the russians had pulled out. soviets all done. unidentified it's like a cargo cult version of chinese food here. dumplings. the szechuan chicken dish that's about as szechuan as, well, i am. (on there will be wealthy hipsters, women in tiny black dresses drinking ironic riffs on the mojito, the lobby of the spanking new w hotel with "oonce-oonce-oonce" in the background, and that's within five years. unidentified will every cuban have an inalienable right to free medical care and education at that time? unidentified oh, it's fantastic. you were a translator, is that correct? and you are now a journalist? unidentified racial disparity. now this is something that the revolution promised to address. unidentified thank you. you have a very highly educated public here, one of the most literate nations on earth. unidentified if everything goes well, what will havana be like? what will this neighborhood be like in five years? unidentified oh, it's delicious. really good. thank you. (end videotape) (commercial break) (begin videotape) bourdain whoa, that's serious. everything is changing. it's entirely possible that soon you'll be able to order any part, any car, any car in the world. you can have it tomorrow. what would it be? unidentified corvette. which year? unidentified los carpinteros have managed to stay in the government's good graces by widely using irony to make their points. in the brutally competitive and capricious contemporary art world outside of cuba, they are stars. they make a lot of money. but they always return home to havana. (on yes, well, this is my biggest fear is that there will be a big glass box of a w hotel, and start seeing starbucks and victoria's secret, and, you know, all the people who make every place look the same. it would be awful. unidentified whoa, what's he cooking over there? yes, for -- yes. (laughter) unidentified ooh, wow. cruise ships. unidentified author of the internationally successful mario conde detective series, padura has been able to portray the daily struggles, the absurdities of life in cuba. it's a delicate dance, and few have been able to replicate it. (on i notice a lot of people just hanging out. who lives here? right. how does he live? you've never had a book blacklisted or banned in cuba? have you been able to say everything that you wanted to say? during difficult periods of cuban history, i'm sure you had many opportunities to live in miami or barcelona or los angeles. and yet you stayed in the same house, the same neighborhood. why? ninety-three-year-old juana bacallao is very much a part of that past. long before the revolution, she was a shining star at the meyer lansky's tropicana, singing for capone, luciano, you know the names. what kind of fish is this? unidentified right. half an hour away. i mean, they can basically take a boat over for lunch. what do you think americans want? unidentified looking good now, man. good rum, cold beer, good fish, good lobster. you'll be needing a blender for pina coladas. unidentified let me put it this way, my friend, you're going to be making a lot of pina coladas. i think you're going to need the machine. so tell me, music business in santiago, but what are you doing? unidentified how much american hip hop do you get here? unidentified right. unidentified so now you can make money performing? unidentified you can maybe make money selling? unidentified that's going to be the biggest thing. unidentified cheers, man. unidentified hola. unidentified let's do it. hi, i'm tony. unidentified how long you have been driving a taxi? unidentified for mostly cubans or tourists? unidentified you from santiago? unidentified really? unidentified oh, yes? because it's supposed to be cold there. unidentified so what were you studying in russia? unidentified so you went from engineering to taxi driving? unidentified so it looks like the embargo might end, you know, a lot of money going to start coming to cuba. do you think it's going to change? unidentified how about going back to engineering? unidentified all right, ok. the other stuff is there, the iran we've read about, heard about, seen in the news. but this -- this i wasn't prepared for. unidentified male thank you. merci. good to be here finally. it's taken some time. like a lot of time. like four years i've been trying. finally. tehran. city of nearly 8 million people. capital of iran. (inaudible) unlike, there are neighborhoods of rome this feels a lot like. after all of this time i finally have my chance to see a country i'd heard so much about. (on ok. that's a simplistic, and incomplete way to sum up the last 100-odd years of iranian history. but the point is there were a lot of issues and differing agendas leading up to the explosion of rage known as the iranian hostage crisis. look, we know what iran the government does. george w. bush famously called them part of the axis of evil. their proxies in iraq have done american soldiers real harm. there was no doubt of this. but i hope i can be forgiven for finding these undeniable truths hard to reconcile with how we are treated on the streets everywhere we go. so forget about the politics if you can for a moment. how about the food? the food here is amazing. chelo-kabob, as close as you get to a national dish and the king of kabobs. ground lamb with spices, a good place to start. (on which is an exploding scene here? unidentified yes. unidentified right. unidentified ok. unidentified right. yeganeh now it is everywhere. yeganeh you know, one of the first things that people will say when you say, i'm going to iran. yeah, but don't they make women dupe this, this, this, this. compare and contrast, women aren't allowed to drive in saudi arabia. yeganeh or vote. you can drive. you can vote? yeganeh can you open business? yeganeh can't they watch football? yeganeh do you like it? are you happy here? are you optimistic about the future? yeganeh what is ok to film in iran and what is not? what is ok to the friendly, to us, at least, ministry of guidance, might not be ok at all for the basij, essentially, roving young religious militias. despite all permits and paperwork being in order we are detained for several hours. this sort of harassment is a daily part of life for iranians. unidentified (inaudible) people have been ridiculously nice to us. aren't you guys supposed to be the axis of evil? unidentified that's right. it's like an earthenware. unidentified right. unidentified potato, chick peas, water. lamb. cooked together. (voice that is really, really interesting. unidentified it is difficult. because everybody says the great food of iran is cooked in people's homes. unidentified delicious. so good. unidentified maybe if i could try some? unidentified yes. thank you. unidentified it's so good. mm, fantastic food. unidentified it's hard to do something like this. that's what i've been waiting. that's the crispy rice at the bottom right there. what is it called? tareq? is that? unidentified tariq. unidentified merci. unidentified you know why? you know why? unidentified times have changed. pre-1979 tehran was party central. but with iran's 1979 revolution, 2500 years of monarchy was over. the supreme leader, ayatollah khomeini's word became more or less -- law. today hundreds of thousands of iranians are bussed to his enormous shrine from all over the country. the national holiday, khomeini died on this day in 1989. his funeral attended by over 10 million iranians. crowd (chanting) unidentified don't want to miss the bus. (voice well, nice to meet you. unidentified yes. hello. unidentified thank you. unidentified thank you so much. it's very beautiful. i guess into the decor, this is a former wrestlers' hangout? (voice isfahan today one of the most visited areas by tourists? unidentified morning prayer in isfahan. unidentified across town the khaju bridge where men gather spontaneously to sing. unidentified male (singing) is this ok? this impromptu giving oneself over to the creative urge to stand and sing out to no one in particular? maybe, but not ok apparently to film. unidentified the road back to tehran. along the way, reminders of just how far back this culture goes. the ruins of ancient caravanserais, highway rest stops from when armies, merchants, traders traveling by camel by foot all passed along these same routes. this right here a stop on what was once the silk road extending all the way to china. in this part of the world, whatever your background, bread is a vital, essential, fundamental and deeply respected staple. in mornings in tehran countless bakeries like this one turn out as much as they can. (on no problem. (voice movak (ph) is kind enough to take me for breakfast. unidentified yeah, and the spread is amazing. so, you were how old when the war with iraq started? unidentified iraq attacked ... unidentified and it was a surprise attack. (voice inshallah (ph). unidentified thank you. unidentified it's slow cooked lamb in yogurt. unidentified rahim (ph), the cook, has been with the family for generations. rice mixed with yogurt and saffron baked into a crispy dough. don't think of rice as a side dish around here. it can be the main event. unidentified the contradictions are just. unidentified enormous. unidentified you see this tortured relationship between america and iran for many years. how do you think most americans will react when they see this? unidentified the milad tower. iran's tallest building and the symbol of national pride. it rises 1,000 feet in the air and looks out at all tehran and beyond. we were out on the observation deck taking it all in, trying to make some sense of it all. our time in iran was coming to an end and it was impossible to say, was a window opening? or was it only a moment in time before it shut again? you learn pretty quickly that in iran, there is plenty of gray area. an undefined territory. where is the line? it seems to change with barely a moment's notice. unidentified last day in iraq. night falls, and the kids, like kids anywhere, get in their rides and head for somewhere they can hang out. (on american classics here. where do you get them? unidentified right. and then fix them up? unidentified mustang? camaro. unidentified firebird? unidentified that's a perfect l.a. car right there. (laughter) is this a car club or is this people just come? unidentified well, i call back for little delivery. (voice not bad. unidentified we don't put ketchup on pizza, though. unidentified i think those are exactly the sort of places you should go. unidentified see who we're talking about and where we're talking about here. unidentified i don't know that i can put it in any kind of perspective. i feel deeply conflicted. deeply confusing, exhilarating, heartbreaking, beautiful place. unidentified american cars are crazy and they're fun. unidentified all i can tell you is, iran i've seen on tv and read about in the papers, it's a much bigger picture. let's put it this way. it's complicated. (laughter) after ten weeks, yeganeh was finally released. but as i read these lines, jason remains a prisoner. his future, the reasons for their arrest, are still unknown. unidentified thank you, guys. unidentified we'll see you. end anthony bourdain, cnn right. the broasted chicken was this guy's idea, my british lebanese friend born to be wild ramsey short who i met in the bad old days of 2006. apparently he's in with the lebanese chapter of the harley davidson group, or hog for short. so when you roll into some religiously conservative villages on these monster bikes and leather jackets what's the reaction? unidentified really? unidentified i wouldn't throw stones at people on harleys. whoa. look at this. get now to work. unidentifed the sheer volume of fire that was poured into some of these buildings is absolutely unbelievable. unidentified over and over and over and over again. unidentified clearly. unidentified beirut, seemingly the world in miniature. 18 religious sects recognized. more than 2 million christians, over a 1.5 million shiites, a 1.5 million sunni, nearly 500,000 palestinians and now by some estimates as many as 2 million syrians, all living and somehow getting along, kind of, in a country the size of connecticut. this could be spiraling and if you said the real fear is that violence across the border, these syrians boiling out, spilling over into an already neighbor now. unidentified here block by block you see the scars from the 15 year civil war that only ended in the '90s but also nightclubs, discos, beaches, bikinis where much of the arab world comes to let their hair down. it is an incongruous mix. unidentified the burj el-barajneh neighborhood has long been the home to principally palestinian refugees but more recently it's become a refuge for syrians fleeing the barrel bombs of president al-assad on one hand and the predations of isis on the other. the camp saw heavy fighting, shelling and outright massacres during the religious conflict known as the lebanese civil war. everywhere you see posters representing a full menu of political factions and affiliations from al-assad loyalists to the plo to every flavor of extremist. unidentified do you know of any other place in the region where all of these groups are co-existing within a confined space? nick paton walsh, cnn senior international i am not a geopolitical expert and as much time as i spent in this part of the world i spent nowhere near the amount of time this guy has, nick paton walsh, cnn senior international correspondent. what do we call this neighborhood, what is it? close to 2 million people from syria alone. that's a hell of a lot to be absorbed by a tiny little nation of what 4.5 million? we'll follow you. najem, english in syria, mr. najem was an english teacher. straining under the weight of all of these unasked for guests the lebanese government has begun making it very difficult for them. being stopped at any of the city's ubiquitous military check points could mean a one way ticket back to syria, trapped, unable to work, they exist invisibly on the margins of society. syrian food? no camel? yeah. once known as the paris of the middle east, beirut still clings to its glamorous 1960's image, a chic tourist destination where you can famously ski and go to the beach all in the same day. walking at corniche it's easy to forget, for a moment anyway, what's going on not far from here? mo, local security mo is a local security specialist on assignment to keep well, me and my crew safe from harm. he lives with his daughter, lushra (ph) and his family in ras, beirut, a mixed neighborhood of christians, muslims and jews. little oil in the middle it's i recall, yes? so good. very good fish. i missed this country. i really did. this is my third time. my first time was 2006. we came here, we had two perfect days and then the war broke out. during my first trip here in 2006, hezbollah guerillas killed three israeli soldiers and captured two others in a cross border raid. in the 34- day war that followed, much of beirut was heavily pounded by bombs and naval artilleries. i fell in love with the city. under the worst possible situation, you have this really extraordinary mix of religions and people. how is that? why? what's so special about it? why? it is a democracy here. so what's in look like now? wow, that's not good. i was watching the news last night in the hotel, it is genuinely terrifying. you get used to it. are you concerned or optimistic? do your friends feel the same way? really, your friends are less optimistic? yeah. is that quite, yes. yes, i think it is. ironic glasses, vintage clothing and neck beards. it appears the brooklyn strain has spread even to beirut. tino, syrian filipino how is it possible this mix of religions and cultures? syrian filipino rapper, tino. lebanese free style legend hussein, aka, aa, the preacher man. you were arrested? hussein, lebanese free style legend, a.k.a. aa the preacher where? what? right. these are beard related issues. let's hear the hip hop? what is it about hip hop? afternoon in beirut in haffa's (ph) family, like many others across the city, prepares dinner. unidentifed extraordinary spread of food. haffa well, thank you so much for having me in your home. thank you. i was in beirut in 2006 this neighborhood was hit very hard. were you here at that time? why this neighborhood? hezbollah means the "party of god". they are a shia military political organization lavishly supported by iran. the party is more powerful, more effective on the ground than the lebanese army. the united states officially designates them a terrorist organization. in 1983, they did this, the u.s. embassy bombing. and this, the marine barracks at beirut's airport, 299 united states and french servicemen were killed. they are dangerous. they are well funded. and whatever else they may be, they are not stupid. my host's support for hezbollah, typical of dahiyeh neighborhood in south beirut, is staunch. in the early days hezbollah used tactics that just about anyone would call a terrorism. when is it permissible morally to use a car bomb or using civilian targets? for you? what's the most important thing happening in the world today that needs to be resolved for things to be better? isis is number one? recently hezbollah has become heavily involved in the war in syria, in defense of the assad regime. complicating matters and uncomfortably enough, they are probably the best organized, best- equipped, most serious obstacle to isis and al-qaeda in the area. right. 20 years, 30 years? will things be better? the last two times i've been here, there is just this never-ending building boom. nobody seems to be moving in but the buildings are going up. joumana haddad, poet & culture editor, an who is buying these apartments? who are they four? right, for whom beirut is a relatively liberal wonderland or permissiveness compared to riyadh, for instance. her books are banned in many countries in the region. she is regularly threatened with rape, stoning and murder. she is joumana haddad, culture editor of lebanon's biggest newspaper, "an nahar." gufta (ph)? that the fried. stuffed grape, please? the fact that lebanon and beirut, in particular, works at all. if all of these religious groups have different interests, i mean, this is a fully functioning, more or less, by world standards. yeah, this is a... it's sort of awesome. am i wrong to love this place? should people come here? there have been two attempts on your life i guess? that you're aware of. you're young militant and an activist, a labor organizer? you have been arrested in your life? later after joining and then leaving the lebanese army, michel elefteriades formed the nur, an armed of revolutionary group. and yet here you are your life now is music and culture? in 2003, by now a music producer, entrepreneur, politician, artist, author and film maker, he founded the beirut musical in a bullet popped theater empty since the civil war. this is his kingdom. who needs culture? if you were the emperor of the world, hypothetically. hopefully, what would beirut be like in 10 years? hello. how you doing? i'm tony. this feels very formal. but it's not so please relax. by all means, yes please. this cafe is a typical beirut establishment but the clients tell from lebanon, from syria and any number of other countries. the owners are both lebanese and syrian and acutely aware of the tricky political realities with which they must live. they were concerned about us filming here and wanted us to understand clearly that the cafe has no political affiliation and that the opinions of this young lady, roan are not that of the cafe or necessarily even the clientele. you were born and breed in syria? oh, thank you. i saw you went for that first. it's delicious. what do you think? will they renew your visa? do they arrest you? do they take you to the border or they take you over the other side? what -- well, does that... what happens if you go back to syria? how different is damascus from beirut? is all of the chaos and the violence worth it for change, is that worth dying for? i mean, things were, there was order when you grew up. there was order. no freedom, but order. would you go back to that? you'd never be able to yell out loud. you've never be able to do the things you're doing now. you'd go back. you were alive. ramsey, how you been? we are better for capitalist imperialist pig dogs like ramsey and myself to spend the last evening in beirut than abu ely. a communist themed bar located in a housing block. what is this? well, we should probably drink it and figure it out. vodka. you know, actually i had somebody who lives here tell me, oh yeah, place is great. just don't stay here longer than a month. and i was like, what? oh, you know, you're trying to kill us now. and who is this man? he's trying to hurt us. after more than a few indigenous beverages, oh, raqqa (ph). so now we're talking. cheers. enter ernesto. oh, yeah? and the words of vladimir ilyich lenin, let's get the party started, or is that rick james? i know. oh. there we go. yeah. is it a lamb? oh, man, that's good. hypothetical question, isis are coming now, are we picking up a gun or not? we'll done like this. zip, stuff, stock. i seem to remember mom at one point whipping out some kind of automatic weapon. all right, here you go, big guy. and in the mirror of all descended from the ceiling, bootsy collins came over the sound system and the rest is a fog. this is probably -- this is the worst neighbor problems in the world. it's amazing that it persists. i think so, too. beirut, everybody should come here. everyone should see how complicated, how deeply troubled and yet at the same time beautiful and awesome the world can be. everyone should experience even as the clouds gather what's at stake, what could be lost, what's still here, and never let that hope go. beirut, there is no place like it. budweiser and jagermeister. so any notion of going local right out the window. yeah, two jagers. cheers. so, look, this is not my first time to charleston as you know. i did do a show here before, and i'm still thinking in about it. apparently i really stop the first time i came here, because i made a number of errors. apparently, none more egregious than going out or like doing oyster roast and drinking champagne. right. so you ask what -- it must have been a place off. yeah, anyway, i got it wrong. this time i'm getting it right which is why i've come to you. you can be forgiven for underestimating sean brock first time you meet him. i know i did. i saw a scruffy looking dude in a trucker cap who always seem to have a bottle of really good bourbon on hand. it took me a little time to discover the ferocious intellect, the inquiring nature, the uniquely focus and purposeful talent to the man, without a doubt one of america's most important chefs. a guy who's redefining what -- not just southern cooking is, was, and can be, but american cooking as a whole. unidentified we're going to talk a lot about this over the next week about the notions of universal awesomeness. is the waffle house universally awesome? you're talking about all, the magical spiritual place. it is indeed marvelous. an irony free zone where everything is beautiful and nothing hurts for everybody regardless of race, creed, color, or degree of inebriation is welcomed. waffle house. i never really know about this. i'm unbelievably in spite of my world travels, new to the wonders of the waffle house and unfamiliar with its ways. the terminology, for instance is new to me. now, i'm looking at my hash brown and i am already confused and enticed. this, sausage gravy. i know i need to make a choice. help me. which means i gather scattered on the griddle, heaped with brown onions, cheese, and chunks of hickory smoked ham. you know what i know, i don't want waffles at the waffle house. waffles? all right. really? unidentified oh that's good. that's good. this is better than the french laundry man. patty melt. oh. oh god damn. oh, yeah. i would like both. really? now that's wrong, man. come on. seems like you're talking about ronald mcdonald. he had a good idea. you know, no, you're wrong. i'm sorry. here's where we part ways, my friend. here's my sauce. after a few bites of waffle, a burger, a hunk of generic t-bone and some hash browns, one feels drawn right to the center of what makes our country great. in america, yeah, moment, it dries me to climber up on the counter and start reciting walt whitman, the stars spangled banner, who say can you see, and, you know, what i doubt i'd be the first. oh my god. the umami have it. you know what umami means in japanese? actually, the literal transition of the umami. no. umami means in japanese, literally it means, "i will smock your, divide you in half." everybody needs a place. a community, something larger than one's self to care about to be part of. a place to hide when times get tough, where you're accepted for who you are, where the rhythms of a summer afternoon, the crack of a bat, the roar of the crowd, our music. behold the mighty charleston riverdogs, a minor league feeder team for the new york yankees. meet one of the owners of the charleston riverdogs, charleston resident, bill murray. bill murray, charleston riverdogs today, the riverdogs are facing the evil forces of the dreaded savannah sand gnats. bad day for the sand gnats. we will crush you like that, well, sand gnat. as difficult as it might have been to forego the joys of the bacon-wrapped foot long corn dog known as the pig on a stick, we knew we'd be coming here. husk directly addresses southern culinary traditions using the best of modern techniques, but always, always respecting the originals and who made them. it's a pressing matter to redefine southern food. if i were a southerner, i would, i would make it a personal mission because it was distorted for so long. but as a northerner, why should northerners care? country ham, bread and butter pickles, and, of course, sean being sean, there will be burden. that's ridiculously good. that's the best american ham i've ever had. by the way, that was unbelievable. how old is this recipe? it's good. yes. oh, yes. that's really great looking. you got grannies coming in saying i haven't tasted this since i was a little kid? wow, it's good. right. wow, well this is going to be my first mule foot. yeah. the rice is amazing. yep. you see bubba gump, do you get angry? for me, it's chili's, because you see chili's along the mexican border. like what the (inaudible)? i said we have a shortage of mexicans in this money, does it get shortage of good food? you're eating the chili's? i really want to like pull up the car, get a tire iron, and walk in and just straighten some people out. road house. vastly under rated film. such a great film. so easy, what else do we need to know? you can deconstruct this film forever. the more you watch it, the more mysteries unfold. yes. it is in many ways a perfect film. what is down home southern cooking? where did it come from? who's responsible? well, it's always useful when asking those kinds of questions wherever you are to ask, first, who did the cooking back then in the beginning? where did they come from? unidentified ashley green (ph) grew up on mosquito beach on james island in charleston. her mother owns the property which has been in her family for generations. fact of the matter is, in the old south back when the dishes, flavors, and ingredients of southern cooking, which to say american cooking as opposed to european, chances are that food was grown, gathered, produced and prepared by african slaves. chef bj dennis has made it a personal mission to celebrate and protect the culinary traditions his ancestors passed down to him. bj dennis, the flavors and textures and food ways of west africa are all over southern cooking. and there are few better places to see how short the line between there and here than gullah culture. i'm really enjoying this. i got to tell you. how african is traditional gullah cooking? unidentified oh, what's that? what is this? this looks good. unidentified turkey has set a new course. one that many hoped would carry it into the european union. unidentified but things have changed. they are changing. unidentified and what happens next has implications far beyond turkey. it has been a turbulent year for turkey. and i arrived in istanbul at the moment of a critical election. the question on everyone's mind is whether the current president and his ruling party will win a large enough majority to change the constitution, potentially allowing him to stay in power indefinitely. these have been good times for some. particularly in the construction and development business. and fearful ones for others. they are particularly concerned about what happens next, for instance, in the kurdish parts of town. amber lyon, former cnn the hdp, originally a kurdish political party, has sought to unite the disparate voices calling for change in response to 13 years of what has essentially been one-party rule by the akp. so history, whatever it might be, is about to happen. unidentified the ruling akp party did not win the majority its president had hoped for. in fact, they lost seats in parliament and for the first time, the pro-kurdish party gained enough votes to earn a real voice in the government. i meet an old friend, esra, for my first meal back in the country. i do. this is perfect. that makes me so happy. i am familiar with this, all too familiar. cheers. so since i last saw you, which was in 2000... 2009. wow, a long time ago. istanbul looks a little different than the last time i was here. it looks a little more like every other city. there seems to be a lot of that going on. your president likes to build stuff today. he like the pour concrete. right. do you think this is coming from genuine ideological religious place or is this some political calculation? you're telling me that current leadership is, in his heart, is genuinely opposed to alcohol, women laughing in public? okay. turkey's most famous politician, recep tayyip erdogan, he is the power and has been the power in one form or another for more than a decade. he's the face of turkey's ruling justice and development party, the akp. erdogan has in recent years made islamist politics mainstream and while remaining very, very popular in this extremely polarized nation, cracked down hard on media, political opposition, free speech, and, of course, demonstrations. in 2013, the almost revolution in turkey happened. a protest to contest the proposed demolition of istanbul's gezi park resulted in a brutal crackdown by the police. in response, ordinary turks unconnected by any particular ideology poured into the streets. with the whole world watching on social media, they, too, were met with force. in the end, erdogan remained firmly in control and there were repercussions for many who had supported the protests. from that point on, media, social media, even open discussion of issues or events became treated as hostile acts by foreign enemies. autocrats in general are not famous for their sense of humor so it's no surprise that comedians in turkey like deniz and her fiance, khan (ph) walk a perilous lie. (foreign language). are these good times to be a comedian in turkey? the finals. all weight classes. but it's basically greco-roman wrestling. just you greased up. as i understand you can't choke with two hands, only one. right down into some greasy ass crack. that's ok. tell me something. i want to know what are the rules of the game. turkish oil wrestling. a big freaking salad covered with oiled men in leather pants giving each other spirited and prolonged reach-arounds. oh, geez. can we get rights to the barry white greatest hits record or diana ross "love hangover" or is that too obvious? i like to be respectful of ancient tradition, but i mean the jokes write themselves. what, there's, like, ropes inside or handles? where do i get a pair of those pants? those are some super freaky pants. well look, it's got to be because the pants are awesome. imagine what the belt looks like. (foreign language) does he stop yelling at some point? (foreign language) yeah. obviously, the mood has changed a lot which is weird because everything seemed to be going so well. things seemed to be getting more tolerant. right. so what happens if someone doesn't like your joke? somebody in a powerful position does not like your comedy. what happens? let's say he's really offended. aiding and abetting the enemies of the state. more oil. (foreign language) (commercial break) building boom or building bubble. architect and city planner murat germen has been capturing istanbul's construction boom with his camera. he employs a unique method of compressing panoramas to create a striking reimagining of cityscapes reflecting perhaps more of the reality than a straight photo could. murat germen, city well, are these spaces needed? at whatever income level, will somebody be living in these buildings? yeah. first things first. we'll save the world later. pita has some similarities. i mean, there's cheese in it. dough. but it's more like a calzone maybe. i don't know. it's an efficient delivery vehicle for this case ground meat, cheese, and onions a not so little torpedo straight from i was going to say flavor town, but no, that would be wrong. i want to see what you do with this. i want to see how you eat this. what do you do with that -- you dip in the egg? pour it in? mm. this is... there's a remarkable lack of sentimentality about really one of the most uniquely glorious looking spaces anywhere. why don't they care? when people look at the work you do see and do you stop them, what do you want them to see? (inaudible) pazara, long home to tradesmen, greeks, jews, and armenians. groups whose populations are these days a tiny fraction of what they once were. this neighborhood like many in istanbul is slated for redevelopment in the name of urban renewal. wow. look at that. it's a lot of food. cesar and his family have been running a restaurant here for nearly 20 years. so your family is armenian? is the food armenian? authentic esnafs or tradesmen's restaurants are getting harder and harder to find. most are family-owned businesses, the kind of place where you can get a classic home-style meal of traditional dishes. you're clearly romantic. do you think there is a place in modern istanbul for romantics or will they slowly be crashed by modernity? so what's the future of armenians in turkey? will it be more armenians in istanbul in 20 years or fewer? less? this turn towards a more conservative, more islamist, is this a political calculation or do you think this is generally genuinely how people feel now? wow. i hope you're wrong. i like to be -- i mean, i'm not really an optimistic person, but i hope you're wrong about istanbul because it's an amazing place. it is a long-held belief that if you want to know the real deal, what's really good about a town... ...if you want to know where to find the good stuff, you ask a cab driver. (foreign language) i don't know if that's true. not in my town, anyway. but in istanbul, i know a cab driver, my old friend, ezan (ph). hello, my friend. good to see you. what a coincidence. so how are things in istanbul? it looks very different. they're building stuff everywhere. more discos? so i thought this is a conservative government. right. right. right. (foreign language) probably not while driving though. oh, yeah, you live in this neighborhood? so this is a local favorite of yours, this restaurant? so it's cow foot, tripes. very nice. that looks good. man, this is just delicious. are the young people more conservative or less conservative? right. dance. probably you get arrested for that. (commercial break) an hour ferry ride and a world away are the prince's islands in the sea of marmara. gunduz vassaf and his friend, serra yilmaz have invited me for lunch. actor? translator? serra philosopher? poet? are these good times to be a poet in turkey? i have become very used to and fond of this drink, by the way. maybe too used to it and too fond of it. serra prepares a traditional spread of meze. turkish meze are extremely tasty, very diverse assortment of dishes originating at every corner of the former ottoman empire. the ottomans like to eat and entertain and they employed armies of cooks to dazzle them with ever-changing menus, variety being key. circassian chicken, faba beans, rice with mussels, eggplant, stuffed grape leaves, poached eggs with yogurt, all classic and all delicious. yes, please. make room for that i think. here we go. wow. it's really pretty. am i getting a distorted picture of turkey by spending all of my time in istanbul? it's very different than the rest of the country. how different? what does it mean to be turkish? what do you think? man, this is so -- let me say, this food is extraordinary. i mean, really, really, really amazing. when i was here last, it was a very different mood. now at least, the tenor of the things said by the government are increasingly ugly. an intolerant. you have this social activism that's very unusual. certainly, the government is sort of appealing to traditional islamic values whether it's for show or not, there seems to be some reevaluation of how much of a party town do we want to be? do they genuinely not like it, or are they appealing to a political base? but i mean, nationalism seems to be working internally. nationalism and xenophobia, it's a vote getter almost anywhere. what do you think's going to happen? you think it will go? walking down istanbul streets, it's easy to forget or not take seriously the slow but certain change in attitude towards this kind of freedom. the right, for lack of a better term, to party. the akp is in power because the majority of voters put them there. their attitudes for better or worse reflect the attitudes of a great number of turks. this is nuri, a turkish businessman. i'm glad we met you because you are an akp supporter. you voted for akp. right. why? since i got here, i've been talking to a lot of people who are very upset about the environment, they're upset about the destruction of old, beautiful buildings. to a great extent, they do not like what much of the world would call progress. so when you saw people running out in the streets and demonstrating, what was your feeling? no going back. you're not sentimental about the old neighborhoods, the old? this is a party town. this is a nightclub town. the impression is that there's some ambivalence there. ten years from now, will we be able to come to this bar or a bar like it and drink lots of gin drinks and misbehave? no problem? right. so it's all about money. who will be turkey's bestest (ph) town? internationally? which way are they looking, to the east or the west? so these notions of like freedom of the press, these are not eastern concepts? they're not. ok i'm going to ask you something. is freedom of the press overrated? you think tightening up on the press is a sacrifice that you're willing to make for a good economy. i don't want to put words in your mouth or prosperity for the majority. right. so, thank you. this is a really bad idea. ok. cheers. (foreign language) (commercial break) (foreign language) esra, of course, good to see you. oh, man. i'm glad i haven't eaten yet. that is pretty awesome looking. with you. i love it, you need to do eggs in the park, pretty impressive. why is it so important? unidentified is it impossible to break? unidentified a few weeks ago it was impossible. so you're feeling optimistic? unidentified esra and her friends, previously unlikely to have known much less come to like one another were brought together by circumstances. unidentified by gas, are you talking about pollution? oh, tear gas? democracy is always a fragile thing. ninety two years ago, modern turkey was assembled from the fragments of the ottoman empire. it has always struggled to find a balance between those in power and the consent of its widely diverse population. since the filming of this episode, turkey's newly elected parliament failed to form a coalition. and president erdogan quickly called for new elections. at the same time, his revved up military action against kurdish opposition forces in both southeastern turkey and across the border in kurdish, iraq. many claimed that he effectively plunged turkey into conflict in a bid to take advantage of an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. and improve his party's chances of success. this is not an unreasonable assumption on anyone's part. fear works. fear gets votes. the opposition had hoped that the tide was turning. it remains to be seen if they have any reason to hope. (commercial break) i time i saw all this, i think it's fair to say i was at a turning point in my life. i promised some people i'd come back, and i am back. my life has changed a lot. how much have their lives changed? kuala lumpur. happy to be here, but brimming with mixed emotions. surrounded by all the sights, smells, and flavors i remember so well. this is where a wandering soul such as myself can dive right in and get some of that straight chinese food i've been missing. first order of business, dinner. i've been on a plane for, like -- i don't know, it was long, very long. so, like five mark wahlberg films. i can't tell you how excited i am about the prospect of getting some black pepper crab, some chocolate chow and some pork gladed noodles and a regional beverage. reasonably cold. i don't even know what this is. how i love you, noodles. don't want to get all heavy and philosophical at this point, but why i'm here, what my mission is, what i expect to find, basically me tracing my steps and all that. we'll talk about that later. right now, noodles. good, wanton, this place is most excellent, oh, chocolate chow. unidentified chocolate chow which is, oh, look at the greasy, fatty, yes, come to daddy. i'm a bad man. this is, like, a random restaurant, look like a purloin minney mouse logo. and their food is unbelievably good. oh, yeah, black pepper crab is going right here. reveal yourself to me my love. hot, hot, hot, hot. oh, yeah. wow. all right, the frenzy's over. now, to eat in a more relaxed phase. i hear no more skulls. they made them put the skulls away. the iban once enjoyed a truly formidable reputation as trackers, warriors, and ritualistic takers of heads. they were and continue to be wanderers. valuing the vaguely a tradition where every tribesman are going to set out from the longhouse of his birth to travel, learn, to bring something back. each tattoo he gets over the course ever of his life represents a different experience, a different journey. oh, like that. since last i saw you and you gave me this. still there. ten years ago at his shop, borneo ink, eddie david tattooed me with an iban-style ouroboros, the symbol of the snake eating its own tail, life, death, the eternal ebb and flow. i think i was going through a hippy phase. eddie does great work and he's known for traditional tribal tattoos, but i'm looking forward to getting it done old school this time. hand tapped in the jungle. so, i need your advice because i'm going back from the same village that i went to last time. the langkau, yes, they had it in every type of bottle. this is clear sort of cloudy liquid with particles in it. a mosquito what? like the pesticide? i would imagine so. wow, all right. so i'm headed upriver again. yes, sorry i can't be there. i promise to my adviser i'm going back. david maggi nine years late. maggi it was david maggi (ph) who first took me up to the longhouse. on that previous trip we met at aunty aini's on the outskirts of k.l. maggi the charming and for lack of a better word fabulous aini was an actor in the malaysian film scene who now runs a very successful kampung-style restaurant specializing in beloved village or country classics. all of them prepared with a staggering finesse and precision. this is delicious, delicious food. unidentified so good to be back. unidentified who taught you to cook? who was the good cook in your family? unidentified oh, wow. wow, this food is so perfect. i mean the flavors are so perfect. it's so delicious. (commercial break) after a two-hour flight from kuala lumpur, i land in borneo, third largest island in the world, divided between malaysia, brunei, and indonesia. kuching capital of the malaysian sarawak, it's a sleepily city with a colorful 19th century boys adventure story history. pirates, head hunters, opportunists, the former domain of sir james brook, an englishman who came to be known as the "white rajah." for a century, generations of the brook family ruled sarawak as an independent kingdom. they created their own army, the sarawak rangers who also acted as rajah's personal guard. tomorrow i follow the pavement as far as it goes and then it's boats the rest of the way. but first, breakfast. unfortunately, i know exactly where to go. i sat at this same table last time. if i look at my life as a continuum, a trail of noodles, going round and round the world until it comes right back to the same spicy bowl. in my experience, you got to be really adapted with karaoke, but here apparently not. so you're coming upriver with us? exciting. yes, i'm committed to that. it's the drinking. yes. that's a good question. i'm revisiting some stuff. just some -- i was in a weird place in my head when i first came here. i was personally, professionally, everything in my life was changing. i was in this sort of nowhere land between previous life and whatever came next. i'm retracing my steps to a lot of this to see if it still hurts. and also i said i'd promise these guys in the village, the chiefs, that i'd come back. well, i made a promise, and i'm going to live up to it. even the jungle wanted him dead. this rang river, what's the line, snakes through the sarawak jungle like a main circuit cable, plugs straight in a -- somewhere. a place, a state of mind, i don't know. i was a basket case last time i went up this river, my mind miles away. yeah. pretty much, yeah, so far. you pick your way upriver, like walking up a gradual flight of stairs, getting out often to push. with several hours still to go a stop for lunch, there we are. we're even right on a beach too. all right, that's cool. good, ha. (foreign language). it's good, right? yeah, how's your... i gather the plan is to try to get there before dark. yeah, me either. all those years ago the man who looked after me at the longhouse was named itom (ph). over 80 years old back then, he led us bounding uphill through the jungle like a young gazelle. he still had the marks on his fingers of a man who'd taken heads, in itom's (ph) case, presumably communist guerillas when he fought with the british during the malay insurgency. we drank shots of rice whiskey together under replicate the human skulls, trophies from another time. and i promised that i'd come back for gawai a big day on the iban calendar, when friends and relatives return to the longhouse. a lot has changed since the iban tracked comis through the jungle. and much has changed in the ten years since i've been here. itom passed away the year before last at the age of 92. and the evidence of how timbering he's depleted much of the forest is everywhere, scandalously so. it's dark by the time we arrive. but someone has been waiting for us. please advise me of protocol. (speaking foreign language) thank you. all for me? oh, yeah, just like old times. there you go, my man. a custom must be observed. (speaking foreign language) thank you. oh, yeah. unidentified yes. (speaking foreign language) my respect, my condolence. unidentified of course. (speaking foreign language) (commercial break) (speaking foreign language) back in entalau (ph) after a lot of years and a lot of miles. i wake up to the sounds of early morning village life. roosters call. the coughing and clearing of lungs as the elders rise to perform their morning chores. the whole village lives here in separate apartments, sharing a communal space that runs the length of the building. some things have noticeably changed. the longhouse i first stayed in has been replaced by a somewhat more modern version. these days there's electricity from a reliable diesel generator. and while there's no cellphone signal, the plumbing works, the washing in the river is still, the way i see it, anyway, the preferable option. in this part of the world, you live or die by the rice harvest. less so these days as timbering has changed, well, everything out here, but traditions run deep, with the iban and in gawai, the harvest festival was and remains like christmas and new year's rolled into one. we will need pork for gawai. and unfortunately, that means a pig must die. more awkwardly, custom, and my personal history in this village demands, once again, that i do the job. down by the river, i shot my baby. what did he mean by that? why would he do that? shoot his baby? unless baby was a delicious, delicious pig. i'd like to tell you that this is never easy, that i felt this time like i did the first time. sad, nauseated, complicit, aware that i crossed a line, been changed by the violence and the blood and the awful noise. but that would be a lie. it should be pointed out gawai isn't just about consuming potentially blinding amounts of alcohol. it's also about food. and one would be well advised to eat a lot. lay down a solid base for the torment to come. oh, thank you. unidentified no, no, not at all, actually. unidentified so delicious. (speaking foreign language) no, no it's good (ph). all right. unidentified yeah, yeah. yeah. good. delicious. (speaking foreign language) unidentified thank you. unidentified cheers. unidentified as the revelry kicks into high gear, there is nowhere to hide. i know only that if i sit still anywhere within range of hospitality, there will be a river of booze. beer, tuak, which is rough hand crafted local rice wine and its more lethal distilled bigger brother langkau. then somebody's pouring you johnny black or j.d. or vat 69. then langkau again, then who knows. you only know it keeps coming until you sag facedown on the hand woven math and pass out, perfectly acceptable practice, by the way. all right, good? very happy guys, thank you. unidentified happy go life (ph). all right, let's party. another tattoo is never going to make me younger, or tougher or more relevant and won't connect me 10 years from now with some spiritual crossroads in my life, no. at this point i think my body is like an old car, another dent ain't going to make a whole lot of difference. at best it's a reminder that you are still alive and lucky as hell. another tattoo, another thing you did, another place you've been. (speaking foreign language) a final long gaze at the river, take in probably for the last time in my life, the slow rhythms of the village. one more thing to do, say good-bye to an old friend. he was a very strong man. unidentified i remember him well running uphill, faster than all of us. so do we do? we leave him a beer and some cigarettes? unidentified he would like that? unidentified first cigarette in two years for you, man. anthony bourdain, cnn host turkey has set a new course, one that many hoped would carry it into the european union. unidentified but things have changed. they are changing. unidentified and what happens next has implications far beyond turkey. (music) it has been a turbulent year for turkey. and i arrive in istanbul at the moment of a critical election. the question on everyone's mind is whether the current president and his ruling party will win a large enough majority to change the constitution, potentially allowing him to stay in power indefinitely. these have been good times for some, particularly in the construction and development business. and fearful ones for others. they are particularly concerned about what happens next, for instance, in the kurdish parts of town. (chanting) unidentified the hdp, originally a kurdish political party, has sought to unite the disparate voices calling for change, in response to 13 years of what has essentially been one-party rule by the akp. so history, whatever it might be, is about to happen. unidentified the ruling akp party did not win the majority its president had hoped for. in fact, they lost seats in parliament, and for the first time, the pro-kurdish party gained enough votes to earn a real voice in the government. we are at the very tip of istanbul next to the black sea, so the ships that are going by here, they're basically going to russia. i meet an old friend, esra (ph), for my first meal back in country. unidentified i do. this is perfect. unidentified that makes me so happy. unidentified i am familiar with this drink, all too familiar. cheers. unidentified so since i last saw you, which was in 2000... unidentified 2009. wow. a long time ago. istanbul looks a little bit different than last time i was here. it looks a little more like every other city. unidentified there seems to be a lot of that going on. unidentified your president likes to build stuff. he likes to pour concrete. unidentified right. do you think this is coming from genuine ideological religious place or is this a political calculation? unidentified you're telling me that the current leadership is, in his heart, is genuinely opposed to alcohol, women laughing in public? unidentified ok. the finals. unidentified but all weight classes. but it's basically greco-roman wrestling. just get greased up. as i understand it, you can't choke with two hands, only one. unidentified right into some greasy ass crack. that's ok. unidentified turkish oil wrestling. a big freaking salad covered with oiled men in leather pants giving each other spirited and prolonged reach-arounds. oh, geez. can we get rights to the barry white greatest hits record or diana ross "love hangover," or is that too obvious? i like to be respectful of ancient tradition, but i mean, the jokes write themselves. and they have, what, there's, like, ropes inside or handles? where do i get a pair of those pants? those are some super freaky pants. unidentified well, look, it's got to be because i mean, the pants are awesome. imagine what the belt looks like. unidentified does he stop yelling at some point? unidentified yes. unidentified obviously, the mood has changed a lot, which is weird, because everything seemed to be going so well. things seemed to be getting more tolerant. unidentified right. unidentified so what happens if someone doesn't like your joke? somebody in a powerful position does not like your comedy? what happens? unidentified let's say he's really offended. unidentified aiding and abetting the enemies of the state. unidentified more oil. istanbul. (commercial break) bourdain well, are these spaces needed? at whatever income level, will somebody be living in these buildings? garman yes. first things first. garman we'll save the world later. garman pita has some similarities. i mean, there's cheese in it. dough. but it's more like a calzone maybe. i don't know. it's an efficient delivery vehicle for this case ground meat, cheese, and onions, a not-so-little torpedo straight from flavor town, but no, that would be wrong. i want to see what you do with this. i want to see how you eat this. what do you do with that -- you dip in the egg? pour it in? garman mm. this is... garman there's a remarkable lack of sentimentality about, really, one of the most uniquely glorious looking spaces anywhere. why don't they care? garman when people look at the work you do, based on this city, what do you want them to see? garman so your family's armenian. unidentified is the food armenian? unidentified so what's the future of armenians in turkey? will there be more armenians in istanbul in 20 years or fewer? unidentified less? unidentified this turn toward a more conservative, more islamist, is this a political calculation or do you think this is generally genuinely how people feel now? unidentified wow. i hope you're wrong. i like to be -- i mean, i'm not really an optimistic person, but i hope you're wrong about istanbul, because it's an amazing place. unidentified ... if you want to know where to find the good stuff, you ask a cab driver. unidentified i don't know if that's true. not in my town, anyway. but in istanbul, i know a cab driver. my old friend, esan (ph). (on what a coincidence. unidentified so how are things in istanbul? it looks very different. they're building stuff everywhere. unidentified more discos? unidentified i thought this was a conservative government. unidentified right. unidentified right. unidentified right. unidentified probably not while driving though. oh, yeh? you live in this neighborhood? so this is a local favorite of yours, this restaurant? so it's cow, cow foot, tripes. very nice. that looks good. man, this is just delicious. are the young people more conservative or less conservative? right. probably get arrested for that. (commercial break) an hour ferry ride and a world away are the princes' islands in the sea of marmara. gunduz vassaf and his friend, serra yilmaz, have invited me for lunch. actor, translator? serra yilmaz, philosopher, poet. are these good times to be a poet in turkey/ gunduz vassaf, ph.d., psychologist and i have become very used to and fond of this drink, by the way. maybe too used to it and too fond of it. serra prepares a traditional spread of meze. turkish meze are an extremely tasty, very diverse assortment of dishes originating in every corner of the former ottoman empire. the ottomans liked to eat and entertain, and they employed armies of cooks to dazzle them with ever-changing menus, variety being key. circassian chicken, fava beans, rice with mussels, eggplant, stuffed grape leaves, poached eggs with yogurt, all classic and all delicious. yes, please. i can make room for that i think. here we go. wow, it's really pretty. am i getting a distorted picture of turkey by spending all of my time in istanbul? it's very different than the rest of the country, yeh? how different. what does it mean to be turkish? what do you think? man, this is so... let me say, this food is extraordinary. i mean really, really, really amazing. but when i was here last it was very different mood. now at least the tenor of the things said by the government are increasingly ugly and intolerant. and you've got this social activism that's very unusual. certainly the government is sort of appealing to traditional islamic values. whether it's for show or not, there seems to be some reevaluation of how much of a party town do we want to be. do they genuinely not like it or are they appealing to a political base? but i mean nationalism seems to be working internally. nationalism and xenophobia, it's a vote-getter almost anywhere. what do -- what do you think's going to happen? you think it'll go... walking down istanbul's streets, it's easy to forget or not take seriously the slow but certain change in attitude towards this kind of freedom. the right, for lack of a better term, to party. the akp is in power because a majority of voters put them there. their attitudes, for better or worse, reflect that attitudes of a great number of turks. this is (nouri), a turkish businessman. i'm glad we met you because you are an akp supporter. you voted for akp? right. why? since i got here i've been talking to a lot of people who are very upset about the environment, they're upset about the destruction of old, beautiful buildings. to a great extent they do not like what much of the world would call progress. so when you say people running out in the streets to demonstrate, what was your feeling? no going back. you're not sentimental about the old neighborhoods, the old... this is a party town. this is a night club town. the impression is that there's some ambivalence there. ten years from now, will we be able to come to this bar or a bar like it and, and, and drink lots of gin drinks and misbehave? no problem? so it's all about money. who will be turkey's (best-est) now internationally? which way are they looking? to the east or the west? mm-hmm. so these notions like freedom of the press, these are not eastern concepts? they're not. ok, i want to ask you something. is freedom of the press overrated? (laughing) you think it -- tightening up on the press is a sacrifice that you're willing to make for a good economy? i don't want to put words in your mouth. for prosperity for the majority. that's right. so, thank you. thank you. this is a really bad idea. ok, cheers. (nosdrovia). (inaudible) of course, good to see you. unidentified oh, man. i'm glad i haven't eaten yet. that is pretty awesome looking. unidentified with you. i love that we can do eggs in the park. pretty impressive. unidentified mm-hmm. unidentified why is it so important? unidentified is it impossible to break? unidentified a few weeks ago it was impossible. but you, you're feeling optimistic? unidentified (essra) and her friends previously unlikely to have known, much less come to like, one another were brought together by circumstances. unidentified by gassed, you mean -- are you talking about pollution? unidentified oh, tear gas. unidentified democracy is always a fragile thing. ninety-two years ago modern turkey was assembled from the fragments of the ottoman empire. it always struggled to find a balance between those in power and the consent of its widely-diverse population. since the filming of this episode, turkey's newly-elected parliament failed to form a coalition and president erdogan quickly called for new elections. at the same time, he's revved up military action against kurdish opposition forces in both southeastern turkey and across the border in kurdish iran. many claim that he effectively plunged turkey into conflict in a bid to take advantage of an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty and improve his party's chances of success. this is not an unreasonable assumption on anyone's part. fear works. fear gets votes. the opposition had hoped that the tide was turning. it remains to be seen if they have any reason to hope. anthony bourdain, parts unknown show admit it. you hear the name ethiopia, and you think starving children with distended bellies. you think dust and famine and despair so awful you frankly don't want to even think about it anymore. but take a look. addis ababa, capital city of ethiopia. a cool high altitude urban center that will both confirm and confound expectations. fueled largely by direct foreign investment and a returning ethiopian diaspora eager to be part of the new growth, things are changing in addis. it's one of the fastest growing economies in the world. it's not the first time the place has gone through a growth spurt. in the 1950's, emperor haile selassie known as the king of kings embarked on a similar program of massive public works. this was supposed to be the legacy of ethiopia. the future. but the next time ethiopia found itself in the headlines it was for this. and for many of us, that was the end of the story. so, i'm looking forward to this week. marcus samuelsson, ethiopian i've been waiting for you. i mean, i will tell you right now. i'm interested in seeing an african country that was never colonized. it was never taken by europe. how does it feel coming back? is it weird at all? you feel like you're coming home? you do not speak the language here, or any of the dialects. you've since come back, you've reconnected with family. but it must be weird to, i mean... to -- you need a translator. in the 1970's, ethiopia was hit with a tuberculosis epidemic. marcus, his older sister, fenti, and his mom were all stricken with the disease. with no possibility of medical attention in their village, facing the almost inevitable death of both her children, marcus' mom set out on foot with her daughter at her side and 2-year-old marcus on her back walking 75 miles to the swedish hospital in addis. against all odds, they made it. marcus and fenti recovered. their mother did not. marcus and his sister were adopted by ann marie and leonard samuelsson. and raised from that point on in sweden. ethiopia, its language, its food, its cultures was largely a mystery. marcus traveled and trained apprenticing in some of the great kitchens of europe. he moved to new york. at the remarkably young age of 23 received three stars from the new york times at his groundbreaking restaurant, aquavit. it's been a pretty stellar rise since then. and in 2010, he opened red rooster in harlem. weirdly enough, the single aspect of ethiopian culture most westerners do know little about is ethiopian food. so, maybe you've had this. oh, wow. that looks good. that -- that is exciting. what is it? maya haile at katanga restaurant they do it classic. injera bread. that's ethiopian 101. it's not just food, it's an implement. we're having beyaynetu, a selection of stews or wots they called around here. that's goma, sauteed greens, shio wot, which is a chickpea stew. and tiko goma, sauteed white cabbage. many, if not most of the dishes, spiced with the magical mysterious flavoring of the gods. berbere. m. very good. m. this stuffing of food in your fellow diners' face is called gursha, and that's what you do to show your affection and respect. try this at the waffle house sometime and prepare for awkwardness. now, you were born here? m. left what age? m. i don't want to say it's a rootless existence, but it's -- you know, where's home? the median age in ethiopia is under 18. that means most people here don't remember live aid or any of that. coupled with a recent economic boom, this might be the first generation in decades to enjoy a future with real hope. things are, indeed, happening. in this case, at a vacant bus stop. (commercial break) a few years back, a couple of ethiopians who had been living abroad returned to addis with some skateboards. today, there are a couple hundred skateboarders in ethiopia and more on the sidelines waiting for their chance, waiting for a board, waiting for a pair of sneakers. it's part of that because it's like skater boy culture came from white southern california suburban, you can pretty much track all the skater culture back to one parking lot. so, what's coming out of this parking lot? there are no skateboard shops in ethiopia. none. they have to come all of them from abroad. little kid's good. for those lucky enough to have them, progression seems to be fast. for skater boys and television hosts, alike, the thing to do in late-night addis is something called turbo and tibs. turbo is a mutant concoction consisting of gin, beer, wine, and sprite. what's the first rule of drinking? don't mix. abenezer temesgen, addisu hailemichael, and buzeo julien founded ethiopia skate. the grassroots skating community that grew up in the parking lots around addis. sean stromsoe is a founding member who's been documenting the group. all right, man. my first -- my first turbo. cheers. you're right. unidentified it is like apple juice. shekla tibs are chunks of beef or lamb fried in oil and served in a charcoal heated clay pot called a shekla. every tibs house has their own version, but here, at massey grocery it's served with a spicy dipping sauce called mitmita, and, of course, injera bread. yes, that's good. that works. unidentified thank you. how did this skating community form? i mean, did people watch what other people were doing around the world? i would tell you right now if i were ethiopian, or if i even lived here, i would open a skate shop tomorrow. so, what's the best thing about ethiopia right now? did we drink all that turbo? unidentified we're terrible people, man. i can go to hell. so time to catch a buzz. m. no problem. this place is awesome. this is a charming ethiopian institution called a tejbet. they serve one thing and only one thing, tej. an alcoholic beverage made from fermented barley and honey. it's not very alcoholic. all right. you have to pretty hammer back a lot of this stuff to get a buzz. so, basically the people around here who got a load on it, they've been working on this for a long time. it's a cheap buzz. all right. yes, it's working, man. this is sort of a guy thing? m. we're breaking major rules here. m. it's the last thing i want to see in the bars, the disapproving gaze of a saint. in 1992, addis emerged from the stifling 17-year grip of a hard line, old school, maoist regime called the derg. since then, the town has been enjoying something of a musical renaissance. but the story of ethiopian music all the way back to the beginning has been about finding ways to skirt authority, to mock it even. to say what you want to say one way or the other. the azmari are ethiopia's original freestyle rappers. they've been around for centuries voicing criticism, dissatisfaction, dissent, even when others could not. so how old? the trick is they've always used a system of lyrical double meanings referred to as wax, meaning the apparent meaning, and gold, which is the underlying or real meaning. poking fun at the audience is fundamental to the form. (foreign language) the azmari influenced ethiopian popular music, too. the use of lyrical double meanings carried through into selassie's time. they called it swinging addis. a golden time between 1955 and 1974. before those fun-hating commies came and ruined everything. post-world war ii, ethiopia was in the delirious thrall of american big band and swing groups like glen miller and against the backdrop of a traditional and official obsession with military marching bands, who had the means and the will and the environment to make musical magic. and this man, mahmoud ahmed, has always been at the forefront. (music playing) when you look to the west, were there american musicians who spoke to you? (foreign language) (music playing) combining elements of jazz, swing, r&b; and distinctive ethiopian scales and time signatures and an always killer horn section, well, listen for yourself. (music playing) shela market in addis ababa. it's where you come for what you need. what are we here to buy, by the way? what's the plan? the funk. kibe, an ethiopian butter in various stages of fermentation depending on what you like. it is a primary ingredient in much of the cooking. m. right. m. people from gurage, maya's tribal area, run the market, so she knows the language and how to negotiate. i can smell a frightened chicken... ... a mile off. here we go. how many do we need? my ma didn't told me get something for dinner, in this case, chicken. fresh, please. see you, wouldn't want to be. oh, that's fresh. how did he get the skin off? right, dip them in. m. morocco has ras el hanout, india, garam masala, ethiopia has this, the brightly colored berbere. the color is amazing and those guys who grind the stuff are covered with it, breathe it, all day long. (off-mike) still warm. wow. that's sort of magic, man. marcus left ethiopia at age 2, so finding and reconnecting with his family has not been easy. tracking down a mom who died in similar circumstances on the right dates following a thread to a dusty village in the oromo region, where marcus found the man he has come to accept as his biological father. he also found tigis, salem, sabini, ashu, and daniel presumably his siblings by another mother. together, marcus and his sisters make doro wot, a classic chicken stew. marcus samuelsson, ethiopian besides the doro wot we have cabbage, beets, and collards. root vegetables finished with the livers and giblets of the chicken. but very good. though a continuing bone of contention with his father, marcus and maya has sponsored the girls moving them all to the city and getting them into school. in the countryside, these girls faced the likelihood of forced marriage, even abduction and very little chance of the kind of future they might have now. so how'd that go over with the family when you said i'm going to try to help you? right. right. second grade. that's it. what after that? addis is one thing, a city experiencing a renaissance of sorts, an economic boom. outside of the city, the farther away one gets, one is reminded that, in fact, ethiopia remains one of the poorest countries in the world. marcus and maya come from two completely different tribes, two completely different regions of ethiopia with distinct languages and cultures all their own. maya comes from the gurage region, a more fertile, green agricultural area than marcus'. it's about three hours out from the city, and it's beautiful. maya, it should be noted, left home at a much later age. there's no question of identity. she's african. she's guragen. she retains close ties to her family and her village. maya heina samuelsson, marcus samuelsson's thank you. she was here just last year. it's been four years since they've seen marcus. maya's mother, besinesh (ph) and de facto grandmother alh (ph) welcome us. when visitors come, everything starts with coffee. traditionally, it's served here with a bit of salt, not sugar. that's good. maya's story differs from marcus' in a lot of ways. it was not disease or famine or poverty that drove her and her brother, petros, to europe and a new life. it was the brutal reality of politics. yes. in 1974, emperor haile selassie was deposed in the very unpleasant general mengistu and a hardline communist regime called the derg, took over the country. as in mountains in china, all agricultural property was taken over by the state and broken up into small parcels. right. anyone deemed an enemy of the state, and this could be a very dangerously loose definition, but usually and typically included the educated, the well-off, and anyone associated with the former government were hunted down, shunned, jailed, harassed and often straight-out killed. maya's dad was all those things. an educated landowner and part of the rural tribal administration from the selassie time. most people who had the means left the country. right. m. so for most of that time your father had to live in hiding? m. morning in maya's village. marcus is a runner. every day, wherever he is, he runs a few miles. me, not so much. but with my cardio shockingly improved of late, i figured i'd give it a try. maya and marcus' return not to mention the invasion of a big foreign television crew is reason or maybe excuse for a big party. and preparations have already begun. maya slips seamlessly from her other life as a high fashion model back into a more traditional role in village life, working along with an army of other women to prepare what looks like a massive feast. how do they -- how do the ladies feel about you cooking? causing serious problems? a lamb, of course, must be slaughtered. actually in this case, two lambs because here as in much of ethiopia, muslims and christians live side by side. one lamb gets the halal treatment. one for the christians. (foreign language) it's a peculiar history of peaceful co-existence here of which ethiopians are quite proud. the christians came here during the time of the apostles from the very beginnings of christianity as a religion. (foreign language) and the belief is that muhammad after being persecuted and driven from mecca by the koresh fled to ethiopia where he found refuge. (foreign language) oh, yes. oh, yes. that's awesome. the production continues. women in the kitchen, except for marcus, who looks most comfortable there, though his presence is a befuddlement to the others. men taking care of the meat. oh, bro food traditions, you're everywhere. so, like, in rural communities where you kill a bigger couple animals, right, everybody in the village has sort of like chosen specialty, like bob over there he does the crack of this field and over there is -- does the buddha. so, you have somebody there who's like good at scraping the fur off. somebody else -- but everybody's got a function. you know, it goes right back to the first fire. i mean, i'll bring -- i'll bring the dip. you know? m. got it. m. perfect. goman and ayib are greens, like collards, with a big hit of burbere and ayib cheese. i like the cheese. it's like ricotta. lamb kefta, prepared gurage's style, laboriously diced. amazing. m. yes. i got some of that. that's good. that's delicious. this, i love, without reservation. barbecue. now we're talking. man, what a meal. pretty impressive. then, whiskey, and music. and the party really starts going. in 2004, at the prompting of his sister, marcus began an exhaustive search for his lost family. who was he, after all? where exactly did he come from? who in his family had survived, was left? where were they? he was told that his father was still alive. living here in aberagodana southeast of addis. for adoptees looking to return, to reconnect, the journey is complicated. for marcus each trip has always raised more questions than it's answered. this trip is no different. it's not 110th street. you're not kidding. i leave marcus alone with his father. this is between them. (foreign language) so, how's it feel to be back? i got to tell you, to be honest, seemed conflicted. if you'd stayed, what do you think you'd be doing right now? i'm pretty sure you would have been a shit farmer, marcus. i just can't see it. ok. you'd be the best dressed god damn farmer, that's for sure. where's home for you, man? where do you think, i know looking back on it all. happiest moment in africa? char kway teow, which is -- look at the greasy, fatty. yes, come to daddy. i'm a bad man. this is, like, a random restaurant, with purloin minnie mouse logo and their food is unbelievably good. oh, yeah. black pepper crab, come right here. reveal yourself to me, my love. hot, hot, hot. oh, yeah. wow. all right. the frenzy's over. now eat in a more relaxed phase. i hear no more skulls. they made them put the skulls away. the iban once enjoyed a truly formidable reputation as trackers, warriors, and ritualistic takers of heads. they were and continue to be wanderers valuing the bejalai, a tradition where every tribesman was set out from the longhouse of his birth to travel, learn, to bring something back. each tattoo he gets over the course of his life represents a different experience, a different journey. i like that. since last i saw you, and you gave me this... still there. 10 years ago at his shop, borneo ink, eddie david tattooed me with an iban style ouroboros, the symbol of a snake eating its own tail. life, death, the eternal ebb and flow. i think i was going through a hippy phase. eddie does great work and he's known for traditional tribal tattoos, but i'm looking forward to getting it done old school this time -- hand tapped in the jungle. so, i need your advice because i'm going back to the same village that i went to last time. the langkaw? yes, they had it in every type of bottle. this is clear sort of cloudy liquid with particles in it. a mosquito what? like the pesticide? i would imagine so. wow. all right. so i'm headed upriver again. david magi i promised them, i said, "i'm going back." nine years late. it was david magi who first took me up to the longhouse. on that previous trip we met at aunty aini's on the outskirts of k.l. the charming and for lack of a better word fabulous aini was an actor in the malaysian film scene who now runs a very successful kampung style restaurant specializing in beloved village or country classics. all of them prepared with a staggering finesse and precision. this is delicious, delicious food. aini, owner of aunt aini's restaurant, yes. so good to be back. who taught you to cook? who was the good cook in your family? wow. right. this food is so perfect. i mean the flavors are so perfect. it's so delicious. (commercial break) after a two-hour flight from kuala lumpur, i land in borneo, third largest island in the world. divided between malaysia, brunei, and indonesia. kuching, capital of the malaysian sarawak. it's a sleepily city with a colorful 19th century boys adventure story history, pirates, head hunters, opportunists, the former domain of sir james brook, an englishman who came to be known as the white raja. for a century, generations of the brook family ruled sarawak as an independent kingdom. they created their own army, the sarawak rangers who also acted as raja's personal guard. tomorrow i follow the pavement as far as it goes then it's boats the rest of the way. but first, breakfast. and fortunately, i know exactly where to go. i sat at this same table last time. i look at my life as a continuum, a trail of noodles. going round and round the world until it comes right back to the same spicy bowl. in my experience, you have to be really (inaudible) up to do karaoke, but here apparently not. so you're coming upriver with us? exciting. yes. i'm committed to that. it's the drinking. yeah. it's a good question. i'm revisiting some stuff. just some -- i was in a weird place in my head when i first came here. i was personally, professionally, everything in my life was changing. i was in this sort of nowhere land between previous life and whatever came next. i'm retracing my steps to a lot of this to see if it still hurts. and also i said -- i'd promise these guys in the village, the chiefs, that i'd come back. well, i made a promise, and i'm going to live up to it. (commercial break) even the jungle wanted him dead. this skrang river, what's the line, snakes through the sarawak jungle like a main circuit cable, plugged straight in a, somewhere. a place. the state of mind. i don't know. i was a basket case last time i went up this river. my mind miles away. yeah. pretty much. yeah, so far. you pick your way upriver, like walking up a gradual flight of stairs, getting out often to push. with several hours still to go, a stop for lunch. there we are. we're even right on a beach, too. all right. that's cool. good. unidentifed good, right? yeah, how's your iban? i gather the plan is to try to get there before dark. yeah, me either. all those years ago the man who looked after me at the longhouse was named itam. over 80 years old back then, he led us bounding uphill through the jungle like a young gazelle. he still had the marks on his fingers of a man who'd taken heads, in itam's case, presumably, communist guerillas when he fought with the british during the malay insurgency. we drank shots of rice whiskey together under a bouquet of human skulls, trophies from another time. i promised i'd come back for gawai, a big deal in the iban calendar, when friends and relatives return to the longhouse. a lot has changed since iban tracked communists through the jungle and much has changed in the 10 years since i've been here. itam passed away the year before last at the age of 92, and the evidence of how timbering has depleted much of the forest is everywhere, scandalously so. it's dark by the time we arrived, but someone has been waiting for us. please advise me of protocol. unidentifed thank you. all for me. oh, yeah. just like old times. there you go, my man. custom must be observed. thank you. woo. oh, yeah. unidentifed more cell phones than last time. pardon? unidentifed yes. madam, my respect, my condolence. unidentifed of course. unidentifed back in entalau after a lot of years and a lot of miles. i wake up to the sounds of early morning village life. roosters call. the coughing and clearing of lungs as the elders rise to do chores. the whole village leaves here in separate apartments sharing a communal space that runs the length of the building. some things have noticeably changed. the longhouse i first stayed in has been replaced by a somewhat more modern version. these days there's electricity from a reliable diesel generator. and while there's no cell phone signal, the plumbing works, the washing in the river is still, the way i see it, anyway, the preferable option. in this part of the world, you live or die by the rice harvest. less so these days as timbering has changed, well, everything out here, but traditions run deep, with the iban and gawai, the harvest festival was and remains like christmas and new year's rolled into one. we will need pork for gawai. and unfortunately, that means a pig must die. more awkwardly, custom, and my personal history in this village demands, once again, that i do the job. down by the river, i shot my baby. what did he mean by that? why would he do that? shoot his baby? unless baby was a delicious, delicious pig. i'd like to tell you that this is never easy, that i felt this time like i did the first time. sad, nauseated, complicit, aware that i crossed a line, been changed by the violence and the blood and the awful noise. but that would be a lie. this time, i plunged the spear in without hesitation or remorse. far up skrang river, the countdown to gawai is on, and i can't help but be struck by one particular upgrade since my last visit. karaoke. as i come to learn, constant karaoke. never-ending karaoke. from a limited playlist of favorites. nearly 24 hours a day accompanied by copious amounts of beer, tuak and other strong spirits. unidentifed it should be pointed out gawai isn't just about consuming potentially blinding amounts of alcohol. it's also about food. and one would be well advised to eat a lot. lay down a solid base for the torment to come. oh, thank you. i feel so guilty. no, no, not at all, actually. unidentifed so delicious. all right. unidentifed (inaudible) unidentifed delicious. unidentifed thank you. unidentifed cheers. as the revelry kicks into high gear, there is nowhere to hide. i know only that if i sit still anywhere within range of hospitality, there will be a river of booze. beer, tuak, which is rough hand crafted local rice wine and its more lethal distilled brother, langkaw. then somebody's pouring you johnny black or j.d. or vat 69. then, langkaw again, then, who knows. you only know it keeps coming until you sag facedown on the hand-woven mats and pass out. morning routine, wake up, feed the chickens, rake the pepper drying in the sun and then it's time to rock the bike, people, and it starts all over again. while the party continues up at the longhouse, i've got an appointment. if you were wondering by the way if this hurts, two guys hammering away on my sternum with a bamboo club and sharp need tells. yes, it hurt a lot and you can be damn sure if i wasn't in television while it was happening, i'd be whimpering and yelping like a gut shot poodle. unidentifed all right. good. very happy, guys. thank you. (inaudible). all right. let's party. another tattoo is never going to make me younger, tougher or more relevant. it won't reconnect me 10 years from now with some spiritual crossroads in my life. no. at this point, i think my body is like an old car. another dent ain't going to make a whole lot of difference. at best, it's a reminder that you're still alive and lucky as hell. another tattoo, another thing you did, another place you've been. the final long gaze at the river, take in probably for the last time in my life, the slow rhythms. one more thing to do, say goodbye to an old friend. he was a very strong man. unidentifed i remember him well running uphill faster than all of us. so what do we do? leave him a beer, some cigarettes? unidentifed he would like that? unidentifed first cigarette in two years (inaudible). after a wild week in seoul, there was, i believe, something called social involvement. there were many strange and delightful things to eat. things might have spun slightly out of control. i took a walk through this beautiful world, felt the cool rain on my shoulder, found something good in this beautiful world i felt the rain getting colder. (singing) unidentified come to me, come to me. powerful in a small girly way. is this what goes with food or is this food that goes with my triumphant return to korea. (laughter) unidentified it should surprise no one that i'm in a happy place right now. like a dog returning to its own vomit, i keep flashing back to --was it last night? the night before? i smell fried chicken on my clothes so perhaps -- (on am i glowing with health and pink, freshly scrubbed? because i've lost about eight pounds of dead skin. (laughter) i don't know. i'm ok frankly with soap and water frankly. and beer. no. what are we celebrating? oh, i thought you said something important. (laughter) ok, there's nothing involved with salt. i don't have to rub that into my raw, thick skin. i'm a broken man. (singing) bourdain yes. uh-huh. i'm brimming with han. i mean, i could never actually have a han because i'm not that korean. this is a genetically cellular thing. i understand. but it's something i feel i can really relate to. i'm definitely -- revenge is a dish best served cold kind of guy. i'll take revenge any time i can get it actually. (laughter) i could eat some more chicken actually. no, i did not love myself this morning. it was like punish the evil. (music) bourdain -- fades away. we are no longer mr. ha, mr. park, mr. noh, and mr. tony. we move as one, a band of bros through the night, the world our oyster. (singing) (shouting) (music) bourdain (on johnny cash. unidentified ah, soju. unidentified so correct me if i'm wrong here, it is dried squid, m&ms;, and mixing your alcohols? unidentified it seemed like a good idea back at the office. (singing) next, they'll be performing a medley from "mama mia." (singing) (laughter) unidentified mouse? mouse fish. (singing) unidentified you got to go somewhere else. you got to go somewhere else. no. unidentified stop two. (crosstalk) unidentified what? a strike or a push? unidentified they introduced a lot of games. we're not going to go through them all because it would take forever and we'd be really, really drunk. unidentified no one wins or loses. we all get drunk. very good. (shouting) that is brotastic. unidentified don't play this game with engineers. (shouting) oh, don't hurt the man. he's been hitting those oysters hard. (laughter) see you in flavor town. (shouting) (laughter) (shouting) unidentified we got to go somewhere else. yeah, we're going. let's hit the street, guys. we'll see. (shouting) yeah, yeah, yeah. younger brother? unidentified all right, younger brother. unidentified mr. noh. unidentified tony. unidentified i do. unidentified this is anthony bourdain, cnn, good night. i'm being forced out. unidentified geez. unidentified oh, man. that's going to go straight to my hips. unidentified yes. unidentified this is a magical dish. unidentified so most people are not sentimental about their time in the military. why do this? unidentified everybody serves in the military, right? unidentified all right. well. unidentified very happy. unidentified i got the recipe now. ok. unidentified ok. unidentified yes. unidentified yeah. hot dogs, canned baked beans, spam, instant noodles, put together with the every present goju jong (ph) and kimchi. it became an enduring and deeply loved classic. unidentified you got that right. (unidentified no, no, no. (laughter) unidentified no. unidentified wow! unidentified i tell you. unidentified i'm sorry about that. (laughter) sorry, man. unidentified regrettable incident. unidentified looks healthy. look at this thing. look at the color alone. it's just -- unidentified in go the noodles. unidentified wow. yeah, baby. unidentified come to me, come to me, my love. unidentified little spam in there. (laughter) good job, chef. unidentified good chefs. unidentified my pleasure. any time. unidentified right here? all right. unidentified classic indigenous ingredients. unidentified oh, wonderful. unidentified yeah. excellent. all right. (commercial break) it's a slaughter-fest. i've gotten the poor thing killed like 12 times already today, so i think i'm going to hang it up. (music) all right, i'm ready for some food. unidentified really good. a whole bunch you can just order. (crosstalk) you can just order food while you're playing? unidentified real life, you know, non-gaming world. unidentified right. oh, man. wow. this is too much. oh. unidentified yep. it's a black noodle. it should be all black. tasty. unidentified that'll work. unidentified yeah. really, one handed? unidentified and play the game? unidentified the only game i've ever really gotten serious about and lived with a year -- i mean, i spent a lot of time, and it was gta vice city (ph). unidentified look, there was a lot of bleeding out in this game. i mean -- unidentified that doesn't look good. unidentified oh, geez. i'm re-spawning. unidentified i'm just learning how to move here. oh, poor little red riding hood. she's not good. unidentified if i'm shooting something, it's me. (laughter) oh, no. little red riding hood, you're bleeding out again. (shouting) oops. didn't make it. i don't see any bad guys. are these friends? oops. how many hours a day? unidentified that's me? oh, geez. can we choose another avatar maybe? something more killy? i don't know if i'm going to strike fear into my enemies. unidentified powerful in a sort of small girly thing. unidentified right. ok, well, i'll try to keep up with you for a few minutes. unidentified to go forward is "w"? unidentified shift and then -- and press right and left clicked together. right key on the mouse left together, yeah. then space, right click, left shift with left click together. brutal. how long did it take you to figure out how to move around in this world? unidentified 10 minutes, yeah. (laughter) bourdain the life of a professional video gamer is a concept that's not easy for me to grasp. these young nerdlingers are famous. they have tv shows where they compete and are making actual cash money. they have sponsors and super fans? they probably even get laid off this shit? and that explains how little red riding hood ended up bleeding out on the cold, hard, virtual floor. (on sure. ok, where's our opponents? (commercial break) (laughter) what fire you have. unidentified he's early 90s west coast. unidentified i know. (laughter) i'm not entirely convinced that korean food is healthy. unidentified i think sometimes i've appropriated the han. i'm very happy here. unidentified yeah. is this drinks that goes with food or is this food that goes with drinks? unidentified we should probably be drinking that, right? unidentified oh, yeah. how often can you come to a place like this acceptably per week? would you come every day after work? unidentified like when someone slumps to the ground and goes to sleep, would that be ok? unidentified what's good to eat here? unidentified ok. unidentified yeah, sure. oh. unidentified oh, yeah. right. unidentified i'm going to get the silk worm out of my soup and make me a sweater. (laughter) unidentified what were you born? unidentified you were born in new york? unidentified and were there until -- unidentified yeah. bourdain my new friend, mark, helped popularize western-style hip- hop in korea, an event that led me to eating silk worms in a tent. (on good to meet you. unidentified oh, man. so where are we? (commercial break) do i have the position correct? are you complaining about your hours? (shouting) (laughter) number-one selling liquor in the whole world. (crosstalk) get many my mouth and stay there. (laughter) come on. i'm getting this weird sense of deja vu. (laughter) i have been in a fish market in seoul at some point? (crosstalk) some previous life. to a triumphant return to korea. (crosstalk) bourdain is that a hint or something? (laughter) oh, yeah, right. bringing back memories. oh, here we go. i need it to burn. fishermen stews all over the world. what can i tell you? this is good. you are failing your duties as a young assistant. we don't have to drink it immediately, do we? (laughter) face planting. it's genetic? but doesn't sound anywhere close to personal suffering. i was thinking more along the lines of electric nipple clamps. and then i would drive over them. and not kill them, by the way. they slowly bled to death from thermal artery -- ok. i believe you. no, i believe you. i like the whole idea of han. i totally get that as an engine. i like that. i like that dark side. the fact that this word exists is sort of awesome because a negative emotion has been converted into a number of very, very, very positive developments. oh, stop sucking up. (laughter) so, to the han. that describes me. i'm not drinking this. i'm getting a weird sense of deja vu. (laughter) like haven't we been at a fish market in seoul or some place -- -- in some previous life. (commercial break) is there a points system? right. win or lose or survive? both? they go home to be happy? nobody's turned into steaks or cutlets? togyu started as early as the 17th century with farmers pitting bull against bull. they love it in agricultural communities so much that it was briefly banned in some places because farmers were spending too much time at the fights and not enough time growing sugarcane. like cus d'amato in the young tyson, their handlers raise these beasts from cabs caring for them on one hand, and training them, conditioning them to be monsters in the ring on the other. yeah. does one wager on this? intermission. time for a corn dog, some funnel cake, curly fries? no. better. much better. yakitori. yes, they have that. but when in okinawa, do as the okinawas do. yakisoba. start with pork belly as one should, some hacked up sausage, cabbage, carrots, fry that stuff up on the griddle, add some chukamen noodles, sauce, soy, mirin, brown sugar, vinegar and a bit of sake. top with seaweed a bit of pickled ginger garnish and eat now. he looks that scary. yeah. but we haven't seen his opponent. yeah. my money's on him. pretty decisive win at that. i'm not accusing anybody of gambling, but i see some money changing hands. (inaudible) if you're looking for sushi or ramen, you of course, find them in okinawa. but what you need to know, what you must know, is that in okinawa, pork is king. ok, they got tofu, too. here at oruzun, they do specifically okinawan food the okinawan way. unidentifed ok. is it that strong? it's good. it is like blue cheese. pork belly? okinawans love pork, every part of the magical animal, the pig. at oruzun, the pork belly is slowly cooked in stock heavily infused with bonito flakes and awabori (ph). the ears are simmered until tender, thinly sliced and addressed in rice wine vinaigrette. and the ribs after brining in sake and seasonings are slowly roasted. so you grew up in new jersey. how did you find your way to okinawa? right. oh god. yeah. right. and you'd never been up to that point? how about the food? what was in that refrigerator? because i know a lot of kids who grew up with that same sort of uncertainty when they brought their friends home from school to their house and opened the refrigerator. you know, like kimchi or cabbage or fish sauce. they were aware of it when they visited their friends. and they were acutely and uncomfortable with it when their friends came over. man have things changed as far as attitudes, pretty much the engine of the new american cuisine, are kids with childhoods like yours. i don't mean what's hip, what's the next new thing. i mean, literally redefining what is american cuisine? let's put it this way. the central irony of this story is that, you know, your mom would have been, like hipster hero of new jersey now. (commercial break) unidentified on april 1st, 1945, a u.s. invasion fleet of nearly 1,500 ships, a landing force of 182,000 people, that's 75,000 more than normandy, approached okinawa. what came next was what okinawa's called a typhoon of steel. having island hopped across the pacific, allied forces saw okinawa as a key base for fleet anchorage, troop staging and air operations for the final push into the japanese mainland and victory. the fighting was brutal for both sides. the cost in lives and resources for the allied forces was tremendous. and when it was over, military planners looked at the mainland, looked at what okinawa had cost them, and projected even more appalling losses. what came next, we all know. what is not widely known is that more people died during the battle of okinawa than all those killed during the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki. masahide ota, former governor of sacrifice? masahide ota is the former governor of okinawa. in 1945, he was a young conscript in the japanese imperial army. he fought hard and bravely against the allies until he saw japanese soldiers murdering okinawans for food and water and his faith melted away. getowan is a private home turned restaurant serving very traditional okinawan dishes. in on honor of their outspoken former governor, the restaurant prepared a dish typically served to royals and vips and what was ones the ryukyu kingdom. it's called tundabun after the dish the multi bite-sized portions are presented in. that's very good. there's some squid. swordfish wrapped in seaweed and simmered in stock and fermented sake. dried sea snake wrapped in kombu and slow simmered. burdock root wrapped in corn slow cooked in hot sauce stuck. okinawan taro flash fried and dressed with sugar and soy. and pork shoulder dredged in black sesame then steamed. you have described that you were shocked and surprised to see the japanese soldiers, the -- their treatment of okinawans was not good during the battle. right. particularly given the experience of the war, how japanese do you think most people feel good here? do you think that easygoing, that reputation -- that tradition of being happy-go-lucky? do you think that this has led to okinawans being taken advantage of? i mean, for instance, the u.s. military bases. okinawa is one percent of the landmass of japan. not in my backyard. for a place with his bloody history, okinawa is today noticeably more laid back than the mainland, but that does not mean everybody's forgotten their warrior traditions. when the feudal satsuma empire from the mainland invaded okinawa in 1609, they banned the carrying, manufacturer, or use of weapons of any kind. the ban was later reinforced in 1879 when japan formally annexed the island. it is believed these prohibitions led directly to the development of a new style of martial art, undisputedly born in okinawa, karate, or empty hands technique. and it's even more vicious cousin, kobudo, a form that uses farm and fishing tools for lethal effect. james pankovich, brit and black belt in showing ryu karate moved to okinawa in 2009 to study the budo or the way of martial arts. he acts as translator for most of the karate sensei on the island. earlier i met james at hokama sensei makishi public market in okinawa's largest city, naha. what are these? gurukun, unofficial national fish of okinawa, and porcupine fish, both battered and deep fried. okinawans eat just about any kind fish sashimi style for us flapper and parrot fish and it loves that because what must serve raw and still twitching in the shell. oh good, good, that's super traditional. sea grapes, the classic regional side dish dressed in rice vinegar. what you buy downstairs from vendors, for a small fee restaurant will cook it for you upstairs. wow. sensei tetsuhiro hokama, legendary master of goju wow. so go ahead. so okinawa's most famous sport, perhaps, is karate. is that an accurate representation of what you're doing? the demonstration of hokama sensei's open-hand kyusho technique becomes a little too real for my taste. human engineering with a terrifying logic when attacks the weak point. all i know how to do in this situation, by the way, is poke hard and look for something to choke or lock. nope, apparently they don't know what tapping out means here because i was tapping like western god damn union. i thought he was going to push that 71-year-old finger right into my brainpan. the u.s. military came ashore in 1945 and to okinawans, it must seem like they never left. today, there are roughly 30,000 troops stationed on the island. put that many americans in a place, especially young, mostly male americans, many of them homesick and it tends to change the environment. kin town just outside of naha right by camp hansen, one of the larger bases. unidentified kin is a small slice of americana both the mainstream america and it's dark underbellies. wow. vivian is this chili sauce or it was ketchup? it's taco sauce. oh, good. vivian takushi has lived in both the u.s. and okinawa and her aunt suni koh, an entertainer who began singing in american bases after the war. wow, that's good. there are dueling claims as to how taco rice might have morphed into existence, but saluri shima bakudo (ph). in 1980s american servicemen introduced the standard taco to okinawans and her grandfather natsugiyo gibo decided to tweak them, jumping the fillings straight on to rice for the late night crowd of marines coming back from the bars. this unholy, greasy, starchy, probably really unhealthy delight of goose map turned-classic caught on big-time to both americans missing home and locals. so i consider myself a pretty pro-military guy, but why are the marines here? look, i like marines, but, you know, i'm not robert mcnamara but it seems to me if you go to war we're trying to ascending in the marines is probably not what you're going to be doing. people of your generation, what do you think the attitude is towards the military bases? right. right. near the base... ... it makes the difference. i mean look it probably but if you know right away, i mean, its tattoo parlors, strip clubs, a (inaudible) shops, i mean, you know. tourism is probably the future of okinawa. you have sunny beautiful weather, beaches. if the bases leave, it's going to be big hotels and resorts and golf courses. which is worse, chinese tourists or american marines? simplified. not everybody here agrees with vivian. by a long shot, okinawans maybe easy going and laid back but the island is also a relative hot bed of political activism largely inspired to provoke by what okinawans see as high-handed treatment from a central government with different cultural and historical traditions who don't consider their needs or priorities. and they are hugely disproportionate shouldering of the u.s. military presence for the entire country. currently, there are close to 30 military installations on okinawa, and even though it's one of the smallest japanese prefectures in terms of livable area, they accommodate more than half of the foreign military presence. even more problematic, much of okinawa's arable land suitable for farming on an island whose whole traditional identity was built around farming is eaten up by military bases. the military base issue, is this more important for older people or the younger people? kenji yoda (ph), okinawan it's for the older people. why do you think this is? act out. this is kenji yoda. he's an okinawan farmer and this nishimachi (ph), a small noodle shop that bears only the owner's name and serves only okinawan-style soba. pork belly or ribs is the meat, the broth a mix of fish, chicken, pork, and vegetable stocks. okinawan soba differs greatly from what we know from the mainland. they use wheat noodles instead of buckwheat not perhaps to the spaghetti eating marines they lived with all these years. long before the war, the americans arrived. long before the satsuma invaded from the mainland, okinawa was a kingdom, the ryukyu kingdom. a prosperous and peaceful island chain with no standing army. they were farmers, traders, and necessarily diplomats whose eyes more often than not looked west to china rather than to the more isolated mainland. while japan as it existed then was isolationist, racially and ethnically, culturally and every other way, the ryukyu kingdom was not. this is bonshura nagama (ph)and yulhena tomohiro (ph) kumejima residents and friends of james. and no military bases. no american bases? unidentified there was. unidentified now nothing. unidentified what do people do here? agriculture, growing sugarcane? fishing. have there been attempts to develop here and have the locals been able to resist that impulse? unidentified i've been invited to a beach barbecue, kumejima style. go big, or go home. to eat some fresh caught tuna that comes straight from the market to be butchered into sashimi. also caught this morning, some sea snails for the grill, and mozuku, seaweed which can be cooked but today is enjoyed raw and local prawns eaten either raw or grilled, or both. well, that looks awesome. off with the head? unidentifed there's more. local beef grilled and then tossed with moyashi, seasoned bean sprouts. we will need our energy, it appears. tagumi is as old school of martial art as it gets. no ring, no octagon. the rules are simple. known as okinawan sumo. it looks easy. it's not. your hands are wrapped in your opponent's belt. object is to get him onto his back, both shoulders before he does it to you. nice. you land on your back for even a second, you lose. unidentified yeah, sure. unidentified in the end, it's a less than smoothly executed judo move because sarugaki (ph) i believe that brings my opponent to the ground. thank you for going easy on me. awesome. awesome. (commercial break) so i've given up many vices in my life. many shameful, filthy, guilty pleasures that i used to like that i will that i just don't do anymore, cocaine, heroin, prostitutes, the musical styling of steven tyler. i put aside these childish things, as it were. in favor of a newer, more mature me but there is one shameful secret. one thing i just can't give up. one thing i keep coming back to every time i come back to japan. one thing that still has an unholy grip on me for no reason that i can gather it's the convenience store formerly of mere akron, ohio, that mutated into a massive japanese chain behold the wonder that is lawson. what is it exactly about this place? it's got its tentacles so deep into my heart and myself. unidentified where are you? i know you're around here somewhere. pillows of love, egg salad from lawson need a beverage. i think i would like a beer and maybe a shot of something. what do you think snake? is this sake or whiskey? there seems to be a conflict of interest here. you train the karate very seriously. i mean should you people be drinking? this is why i'm asking. where is the point of diminishing returns? right. sashimi of, well, let's just say it's an animal you like. horse, wow, all right. good, and this? oh, that's good. pure protein for people, who need it and pork belly, some pickled pigs ears, and baked yam. i watch a lot of mixed martial arts. i watch a lot of jujitsu. my daughter trains mostly jujitsu, but some standup. some of the most exciting fighters that i've seen lately who really show the most heart are women. is there a future for women in karate? after a few drinks i notice that i don't understand anyone. they could be making various threats of violence to me at the bar. and i could just be smiling nodding. i'm just going to slump to the ground and go to sleep. would that be okay? little social experiment here. dick jokes coming. stand by for dick jokes. i do like a good sausage. nine years as a vegetarian? that's unthinkable to me. that doesn't sound anywhere close to endless suffering. unidentified i was thinking more along the lines of like electric nipple clamps and then i drive over them and not killing, by the way, they slowly bled to death from femoral artery wounds. oh, okay. this is anthony bourdain. cnn. good night and eat more spam. (music) unidentified let me ask you, though, first, does wolf blitzer have to do clip shows? i'm sure sanjay gupta doesn't do clip shows. unidentified have i ever felt in danger on location? i feel in danger now. can i just -- why don't i just take the cards and i'll read through them. they're in the original handwriting, too. that's useful. oh, god. i hate that question. this one, obviously disturbed. contact homeland security over this one. ah, so you're the one guy on tv that we look at and say, hey, i love to have a beer with that guy, although now you seem to be spending a good deal of time at the gym working out which is good for you, i guess, but all this getting in shape seems to have gotten in the way of your ability to party. come on, man. thanks, brad." well listen, brad, i know it would be much more fun, entertaining and satisfying for you for me to die at age 61 with a cigarette in my mouth, my gut billowing out over my boxers. i'm a father of a little girl. i became a father late in life. i feel that one of the responsibilities of parenthood is at least making a good faith effort to be alive long enough to reach the all-important eye rolling phase of a little girl's life. i have to admit there is a little part of me that's a little offended or, you know, "you're not keeping it real, man, you were much to fine when you were drinking too much." you know, what can i tell you? what is this? unidentified we should probably drink to figure it out. unidentified vodka. unidentified to a triumphant return to korea. unidentified this being korea, beer is a must as is apparently soju. i had forgotten that part. unidentified male (through yeah, pour you more alcohol. unidentified male (through older brother, yes. unidentified no. unidentified what? a strike or a push? unidentified right. unidentified that is grotesque. unidentified don't play this game with engineers. unidentified yeah, we're going. let's hit the street guys. all roads led here. no escape. only embrace. unidenitified male (through seemed like a good idea. back at the office. (singing) next i'll be performing a medley from "mama mia." unidentified hey! unidentified male (through i feel like a boy band. unidentified johnny cash. unidentified merriam from colorado springs. great work. love the series. yours is the only show our family watches as a group. really? you let your children watch this filth? unbelievable. "do you still get excited about all the travel? do you still learn stuff?" yes, i still get excited about all the travel and i learn stuff every day. you know, i like to say that the show has an educational component or inspirational component or that i'm an advocate for something. i'm not really. it's ultimately it's -- i'm a selfish person. i'm having fun. when i stop having fun, i won't do it anymore. unidentified right. unidententified right. unidenitified yeah, that sucks. unidentified you know, people are saying, well, we'd like more shows about this or we really liked it when you -- i wish i could say that that guides my decision-making but it really doesn't. i mean, if you start thinking about what the audience wants, that's the road to madness, and trying to be everything to everybody and shooting for an average or, like, a -- you start talking about yourself in the third person if you start thinking about what people want. unidentified and so our time in scotland investigating the rugged beauty of the highlands comes to an end. land of enchantment, land of contrast. i think we've learned something today. all right, cut. all right, let's load the boat. let's get the hell out of here and get rid of that thing. jesus. the hacksaw. get the hacksaw. unidentified i told them. i said steel-cut oatmeal. steel cut. how (expletive deleted )hard is that to remember? is that thing on? (commercial break) everybody who works on this show likes movies. all of us love films. it's a prerequisite to work on the show. if you're not excited about films, if you're not a film wonk, i don't know that i can even talk to you. so, it has been, you know, it's been really exciting to be able to work with people like vilmos zsigmond, one of the great cinematographers in the history of film. but it's also great to look at a place through somebody else's eyes and it is a particular privilege when you're able to look at a place through someone's eyes like a vilmos zsigmond who has a famously individual point of view, an incredible story, their own sensibility. vilmos zsigmond, you know these images. you grew up with them. they're iconic sequences, framed and lit and seen through the lens in ways that changed film making forever, all made by the same man. vilmos zsigmond, legendary cinematographer. if for some reason you don't know the name you sure as hell know his work. the oscar winning close encounters. the deer hunter. his absolutely revolutionary work on mccabe and mrs. miller. the long good-bye. deliverance. he created a whole new palette, took crazy risks, changed film language in ways people still try to imitate. and he's making our camera crew very nervous, i can tell you. so fun. you taught yourself to shoot. when you first moved here to go to film school, what was your average day like other than your studies? in fact, some of vilmos' most powerful and world changing footage occurred around this time before leaving hungary as a film student during the outbreak of revolution. you were alive and holding a camera at a very important time in history. you had to think you were doing something important. what you wanted to shoot and what you were unable to shoot, or decided is less important to shoot, it's a reminder that storytelling is a manipulative process. you know, we don't look to deceive, but i want you to feel a certain way when you watch my show. the madagascar show is an example of if i were to lose that control briefly and hand it over to somebody else, in this case darren aronofsky, it ain't always pretty. capturing images around the world can have unintended consequences. it can be a destructive process, whatever your intentions and however pure your heart. i wanted to show that. the camera is alive. it shows everything. it shows nothing. it reveals only what we want. often what we see is seen only from a window, moving past then gone. one window, my window. if you'd been here, chances are you would have seen things differently. this is it. this is the food stop. i am starving. darren aronofsky, yeah, two of those. we get what we can. man, it's quite a scene. it's hard to complain about the lack of food options if you look around. you live it now. looking back, if you were editing this show, how would you tell this story? this is it. this is the food stop. i am starving. man, it's quite a scene. want that? this is really puffy. i see a lot of poverty, i see a lot of cruelty. i have reason to feel angry, or frustrated, or heartbroken frequently. it angers me to see a place like, you know, detroit, a great american city that's failed, or has been allowed to fail. to see new orleans post-katrina makes me angry. to see camden, new jersey, in my own state that i grew up in, it makes me angry. yes, there's a lot of scary, ugly stuff in it, but there is much more, i still think, beauty and kindness and humor and people doing the best they can in often very, very difficult situations. it is a magnificent planet filled with fascinating and more often than not beautiful people. there are few american cities, places where things have gone as disastrously wrong as camden, new jersey. once a manufacturing powerhouse, home to the new york shipbuilding corporation, the campbell's soup company and rca victor records. about 80,000 people live here today, that's the same number of people who were employed during its heyday. more than 1/3 of city residents live below the poverty line. if there's any place one can be forgiven for just throwing your hands up in the air and giving up, it's here. but no. cities with serious problems need extraordinary people. and towanda jones is clearly an extraordinary person. towanda jones, her late grandfather, walter green jr., believed in being part of the community. when towanda was 15, she was asked to lead a local drill team. unfortunately, it soon lost its funding. walter purchased 80 uniforms and 3 drums to give them a start. today, the camden sophisticated sisters drill team, which includes the brothers in taps, the almighty percussion sound, have over 320 participants. what was camden like back in the good old days? the conventional wisdom seemed to be it's time to get out of camden. why are you still here? right. a lot of your practice is done outdoors. that's nice. how do you keep these kids off the corner? you had to have seen kids that you really believe in fall by the wayside. how do you go on? there is a real danger of becoming cynical. you shut yourself off from certain emotions that other normal people probably still feel. i've become harder in some ways, but some things always penetrate. there's things you can't push away or push out or shut your eyes to. i think especially when you're, you know, when you're a parent, you know, it's the kids will get you every time. afternoon in beirut and the hafes (sp) family prepares dinner. unidentified thank you so much for having me into your home. unidentified thank you. i was in beirut in 2006. this neighborhood was hit very hard. were you here at that time? unidentified why this neighborhood? unidentified hezbollah means the party of god. they're a shia military political organization lavishly supported by iran. the party is more powerful, more effective on the ground, than the lebanese army. the united states officially designates them a terrorist organization. they are dangerous, they are well funded. and whatever else they may be, they are not stupid. unidentified my host's support for hezbollah, typical of this dahia (ph) neighborhood in south beirut, is staunch. unidentified in the early days, hezbollah used tactics that just about anyone would call terrorism. when is it permissible, morally, to use a car bomb or use a civilian target? unidentified for you. unidentified what's the most important thing happening in the world today that needs to be resolved for things to be better? unidenitified isis is number one? unidentified recently, hezbollah has become heavily involved in the war in syria in defense of the assad regime. complicating matters and uncomfortably enough, they are probably the best organized, best equipped, most serious obstacle to isis and al qaeda in the area. unidentified right. unidentified 20 years, 30 years. unidentified will things be better? unidenitified oh, geez. "hi, anthony, you eat such adventurous food on parts unknown. it seems like there is nothing you don't eat. does the crew get to eat the same things you eat?" oh yes, yes, they do. they share the same food good and bad. if i'm eating some sort of still semi-living nether region of reptile, you should share that experience with me. that's my feeling. alternately, you know, if we just did a scene of me eating 12 courses at row bouchan (ph) in paris, chances are you're getting a pretty good meal as soon as the scene's over. one of the things that's curious to me, and i found this to be true of camera people and production crew throughout my television career, we could be on our way to shoot a scene in france laundery, or el bouli (ph), but if it's like okay. unidentified oh, these, okay. unidentified yeah. dating back to famine years of the korean war, scrounging and scavenging from american military bases, it's in fact, a classic example of necessity being the mother of deliciousness. hot dogs, canned baked beans, spam, instant noodles put together with the ever present go to jiang (ph) and kimchi. it became enduring and deeply loved classic. unidentified like i used to say to my first girlfriend, how can something so wrong be so right? oh, in go the noodles. unidentified mmm. wow. oh, yeah, baby. come to me. come to me. come to me, my love. unidentified need a little spam in there. good job, chef. thank you, chef. unidentified my pleasure. any time. unidentified i know. philadelphia is right over there. the center of the cheesesteak universe. but what if it isn't? behold, the jersey cheesesteak. is there a difference between jersey style and philadelphia style? unidentified really? i'll have one of those. what's the way to go? i mean, anything i need to know or just? unidenitified beautiful thing. unidenified it's round. it's got steak, spices, browned onions, real american cheese -- such as it is -- and a poppy seed roll. fantastic. thank you, sir. and it is sublime. man, this should be a national landmark right away. this sandwich is unbelievably good. unidentified worth driving across the state in a blizzard for. unidentified it's awesome. i think we learned something here today. jersey cheesesteaks. i'm going to tell you they're better than philadelphia, yeah, i am, actually. so there. look at this. holy. really? good lord. jeebus. this i need a photo of with a human hand next to it. that's truly terrifying. who eats that? behold the massiveness, the fried to order in a pan to only the highest standards schnitzel of justice. if a big wave came, i could surf this thing back in my hotel. oh, that's good. deeply textured, pork flavor, with hints of three-day-old fryer grease. you know, some of you have noticed and complained that i don't really describe food anymore. it's really a lot like writing porn. after you've used the same adjectives over and over, like, you know, the penthouse letters. is this going to make your life better at all if i describe exactly how while smacking my lips (inaudible)? no. it's good. do i get a t-shirt if i finish this and my picture on the wall? (commercial break) unidenitified yep. unidentified yeah. so, this is an email from 2008. it was an email from iggy pop's people to 0.0 production. iggy pop, a hero of mine since 1969, okay? so of course i've been reaching out regularly over the years hoping, hoping, hoping that my hero would agree to be on the show. i got this response. "iggy is working on a film outside the u.s. on those dates and he says he has now reached puke point for his own media exposure this year. he's seen anthony's show and thinks that anthony is not a dick. he says thanks for asking." there's hope, that's what i thought. i'm not a dick, yes. iggy thinks i'm not a dick. it was pretty much the best thing that anyone had ever said at any time in my life and it only got better. so you've been here how many years now? james "iggy pop" osterberg, 15 years? you're a floridian. so we're eating healthy today. what do you like here? i wouldn't have thought back then in my dorm room that all those years later i'd be eating healthy with iggy pop. barbecue shrimp for the godfather of punk. i get wild and crazy with some roast pork. a little white wine, our only tilt towards the debauches of previous lives. i well remember the first stooges album coming out, the context of the time. this was, what, '69? as far as looking after my health, your music early on was a negative example. and looking at my own life and career, i'm pretty much known for traveling around the world recklessly drinking and eating to excess. what does it say about us that we're now sitting in a healthy restaurant? i just came from the gym. and we're in florida. what's a perfect day in miami? you're a guy who at various points in life has been able to have a lot of things that ordinary people would never have. you've had many, many adventures. given that, what thrills you? is this the reward phase of your life or is it just dumb (expletive deleted) luck? yeah, i think you deserve it. but when i look at my own life, i'm actually -- i'm ambivalent. i'm still not so sure, you know? it's my only virtue. curious is a good thing to be, you know? that seems to pay some unexpected dividends. (commercial break) "who picks the locations you go to? are there any places still left on your to-go list?" well, i pick the locations we go to. there are no helpful memos from anyone else saying, hey, viewers think it would be a really great idea for you to go to disney world or great adventure, or have you considered the minnesota state fair? i make a list every year of places i'd like to go then unless it's a really stupid idea, which admittedly does happen, we go there. "are there any places still left on your to-go list?" yes. so it's been over 50 years since you, the american public, have been able to enjoy a fine cuban rum, and this is a very fine one, i can tell you, but it looks like all of that is about to change. floodgates have been let loose or will be soon, it sure looks like. the whole world is changing. what is that going to mean? do we find out? i don't know. we make an educated guess. i don't know how educated, but we do make a guess. the south is not a monolith. there are pockets of weirdness, awesomeness, and then there's charleston where for some time now, important things have been happening with food. unidentified charleston is a place with almost too many beautiful buildings, almost too many incredibly talented chefs. and almost too much really, really good food. it's nice here. i like it. so it's been a week of martial arts madness, and between the okinawan sumo and karate, there's really no part of my body that doesn't hurt. on the other hand, i've eaten really well and i've learned something. okinawa is nothing like the japan i know at all. everything is different here. unidenitied happiness first. unidentified once we meet, we are family. oh, thank you. also there's, pork. delicious, delicious pork and lots of it. okay. next question. "what is sanjay gupta really like?" well, ted from jersey city, all i got to tell you is he's a doctor. doctor sanjay gupta. and he likes to party. ever since he's starting vaping, he's a lot more fun. oh, yeah. he vapes. where's that sandwich? you've never been here? how is this even possible? you grew up how far from here? you grew up 100 miles from here. what prevented you from coming to this clearly beautiful city? because it's clearly beautiful. you live in new york. i should point out that every single frenchmen, when i said, you know, i'm shooting in france, they say, oh really, where? and i say, marseille. their face drops immediately, like, oh. do you know what they say? they say this is not france. this is not france. well, i'm looking forward to the week. this is low-impact show. it means i'm not, you know, paddling upriver. it means i get a flush toilet, eating well constantly. i do. look, i do. i like a fluffy hotel towel. i like a bidet. look, i like warm jets of water squirting up my ass. i mean, who doesn't? i could retire here. you see, that's sort of the measure of a place for me is, like, if you start thinking thoughts like that. like, that must be nice. i could live here. just me and my watercolors, you know? when you retire, are you going to putter? dicking around. basically, you wake up and maybe you paint a little, you know. well, ok. do you how to make a sweater. do you actually fish? do you know how to fish? do you ever fish? i'll show you how. all you need is a car battery and a couple of cables. trust me, you get all the fish you want. they come right up. there's other ways. how do you say dynamite in french? dynamite. see, i do speak french. you can tell. you know it's coming, right? you can sense it. oh, no. another fishing scene. this is our vessel here on the right. unidentified eric from (inaudible) is one of only a handful of old-style fishermen who work the sea the old-fashioned way. do you see yourself fishing? right. i always think i'm going to catch, like, my testicles or my ear with the hook. you know, i have a fear of hooks. you, guys, catching dentex. well, hopefully, we'll see. that's right. eric works exclusively for this man, gerald passedat, the extremely demanding chef/owner of le petit nice, marseille's only three michelin-star restaurant. gerald passedat, chef/owner, le petit how long is the line? and so he basically lays it out at night -- comes back and pick it up. wow. this must be the 12th fishing scene. no, i must have done 20 fishing scenes in my life. and i think i had one good day out of all of them. other than that, it's been one humiliating goat rodeo after another. ordinarily, our typical fishing scene actually would be, it would be rougher than this. so we'd be pitching back and forth, and i'd be hanging on to the contents of my stomach only by realizing that they feel even sicker because they have to look through the view finder. so they're like -- so it's basically you're playing this sort of race against time kind of a game. it's like who's going to puke first. but it's always the camera dudes. no. generally, it's our producer. unidentified this is the worst. well, there it is. another extraordinarily successful fishing scene in the can. time to reap the rewards waiting us back on dry land. you'll tell me if there's any oiled up amazons behind me. frolicking naked. here's the chef. nice to meet you. an honor, sir. no, no, no. it's a very good idea. here's reinvented, deconstructed and then usually there's the thing, itself. passedat's take on bouillabaisse, without a doubt marseille's most famous dish is spread out over four courses. first, shellfish carpaccio of raw mussels and clams. they slice the muscles raw. that's crazy. wow. slipper lobster, weaver, angler, and red gurnard lightly seared then a touch in the oven. oh, whoa. oh, this is just incredibly beautiful. well, this is insanely good. a broth so intense it requires over ten kilos of rock crabs and various bony tasty little fishes to make just one kilo of brown, gloriously brown, magical liquid. wow. that's a good one, huh? oh, man. and just when my brain threatens to short circuit with pleasure, descending as if from heaven, itself, cheese. oh, god, the cheese. i got to tell you. i don't care how many naked breasts are on that beach right now, because that is much more exciting. all right. look at it. it's beautiful. yes. oh, look at that. oh, man. oh, i love. cheese like this. that is just incredible. oh, yes. it is very good in marseille. (commercial break) marseille was once the hub, the rough and tumble principle port for france's colony such as tunisia, morocco, and algeria. as a result of the sights and smells of africa permeate the city. there's been attempts to dissuade me from marseille, you don't want to go there, and yet i come here. correct me if i'm wrong, it is a beautiful city. it smells good. you smell the different pastries, the tajin, (inaudible). and it's an extraordinary looking city and the people are really interesting looking. cedric fabre, marseille crime cedric fabre is a marseille crime writer who spent decades deciphering the dense layers of crime and corruption, pasties and sunshine. it's a perfect town for writers of mark, plenty of atmospherics and lurid history. why do you think it's such a fertile ground to set a crime novel? here, it's a really interesting stew of characters. le femina is an algerian restaurant with some of the better couscous in town. and since it's a very filling dish and i only got one crack at it, i go for the royale. what else? vegetables, chickpeas, merguez sausage, chicken, chunks of lamb, and meatballs. what people say is that everybody sees themselves as marseille's first and french second regardless of your background. is that true? and a beautiful -- we abandoned detroit. we abandoned it. it became too black for america to live. let's hope marseille people figure that out because i think it's amazing here. if you ask real marseilles these day, what's the iconic dish? the one thing you most closely associate with home, the answer might surprise you. pizza. marseille, it turns out, is the pizza truck capital of france. so this could be a whole new beginning for you, eric. i always say you should have a truck. do you have pizza experience? does he know this? oh. jean-denis martinez, our employer for this episode of the real world geriatric edition is jean-denis martinez. his yellow truck a rolling pizza oven is well known in the neighborhood meaning he's busy. we're not going to be good at this. this is going to be like "i love lucy." this is like a nightmare. i actually have this nightmare, where like there's an order coming in. i don't understand what they are because it's in another language and i don't know where anything is and i'm falling behind. this is literally my nightmare. unidentified ok, get in there. lucy, come on, put on the sauce. come on. you don't. what? i'm getting there. come on, man. customers are backing up here. they want the pizza. the state capital of jackson, mississippi, located along interstate highway 55, just outside what's known as the mississippi delta, it's the kind of place that makes you wonder, why did they make it the capital, until you grab hold of what used to be around here. farish st. used to be the hub of african-american life in this city, its black commercial cultural center. when dr. king came to town, he came here. everybody did. medger evers (ph) had an office just upstairs here. musicians like tommy johnson, sonny boy williamson ii and elmore james all played here and the likes of duke ellington, cab callaway, count basie and louie armstrong all took the stage at places like the crystal palace ballroom and the alamo on farish st. street. what happened? where did it all go? lee right. lee or all three in that... lee ...but not in that order but... lee back when things were hopping, gino lee's (ph) great grandfather, juan big john mora (ph) moved to mississippi from mexico city, started a family with an african-american woman in jackson. he sold hot tamales out of a steel drum on the corner. in 1939, he moved the operation inside, right here, now, the last restaurant on the street. lurking inside, waiting for us is john t. edge, who leads the southern food ways alliance. mr. edge, how are you doing? who makes a point, a mission, out of knowing and teaching as much as he can about the real culinary traditions of the south, and doing what he can to keep them alive and unmolested. look at that. awesome. it's just like a dream (ph) sandwich. what you go for here are smokes -- smoked sausage sandwiches and these magnificent beauties, pig ear sandwiches called ears, both pretty much served with the same garnishes of slaw, mustard, home-made hot sauce on a soft bun. no, as i understand it, originally, this is one of those -- nobody wants these things. they're dirt cheap. lee right. lee so everything, you know, we -- we love about pig, the texture, the mix of fatty and lean, all that's good. man, that is just hard to beat. lee yes. it's a good sandwich. and of course, some hot tamales, which at this point in history are about as mississippi as they are mexican. like the blues, they came out of mississippi in the early 20th century as mexican migrant workers came in to replace african-americans, who were headed to work in the great factories and stockyards of chicago and detroit. and (ph) more (ph). there is a -- a discomfort level about exploring southern food ways or particularly mississippi food ways. lee when you're talking about high-end traditional southern cooking, you're talking plantation slavery cooking because that's where these recipes came from. so to revel in that, you don't want to tumble into nostalgia. the potential for awkwardness... ...and offense is enormous. right. i'm a yankee, so for me, it's kind of shocking to see this flag. it means a lot of things to a lot of people, first and foremost, meaning i'm not a yankee and i don't much care what you think. there's no doubt that much of mississippi history is ugly, from slavery which was pretty much the backbone, the foundation of industry here from the get-go, to jim crow (ph), lynchings to church burnings. fourteen-year-old emmett till, killed for talking sass (ph) to a white lady in 1955. the assassination of medgar evers in 1963, the murders of civil rights workers james chaney, michael schwerner and andrew goodman in 1964, hell, they had to send in 30,000 armed federal agents, national guardsmen and military police just to enforce federal law, allowing a black man to attend state college, a notion that was, shall we say, less than popular here. to be honest, that was about all i had for an image of the state of mississippi. that was all i knew. and it hadn't occurred to me to look further. but i've traveled the world since then. and i visited and learned to love many places not my own, cultures and beliefs very different from the upper east side of manhattan. why can't i love mississippi? pie (ph) infamous (ph) is a proud son and resident of mississippi, a youth mentor in jackson's church and public school systems, owner of a marketing agency and hip-hop artist. this town, it feels empty. where is everybody? pie infamous soul wired cafe, one of the number of places where something is going on, where artists, entrepreneurs, moving at workshops, performance spaces, set up something new and good in formerly abandoned and neglected parts of town. this is a deeply, deeply conservative state, to say the least, right? pie infamous is it more racist than new york? pie infamous yes, no doubt. pie infamous (ph) is originally from clarksdale in the delta and went to ole miss (ph) but he's neither a left nor a lost faith. he feels an obligation to empower, uplift, educate, to contribute. pie infamous depending on what metrics you're using, the mississippi is somewhere between the tenth and the fourth largest river in the world. one thing for sure, it's big. and it's freaking strong. also, you really got to put your back into it if you're crazy enough to want to paddle a canoe around in its fast-moving waters. what's the source of the mississippi? unidentified john rusky (ph) is what i'd guess you'd call a river rat. in 1998, he started the quapaw canoe company, a custom outfit that leads guided expeditions on the mississippi river and its tributaries. as a central part of his operations, he trains local kids from mississippi and across the river in neighboring arkansas under an apprentice program, teaching skills like hand-carving canoes, outdoor survival and the ins and outs of guiding and the history of the river. most of these kids come from pretty distressed neighborhoods and the hope, the intent, is that once trained up, they'll stay with the company. nice paddling, tony. you've got the feather (ph) down. thank you. i'll be feeling that tomorrow. buck island -- most of the island could be under 45 to 50 feet of flowing river water from april to june with the spring ice melt and rainstorms. unidentified multi-purpose and indestructible? unidentified this right here? unidentified well, what does that mean, commitment? unidentified sweet potatoes, greens, into the dutch ovens. throw on the corn when getting close. finally, on the wet logs on top of glowing coals, lay some steaks, some pork loin and pork tenderloins right on there. just keep an eye on them. look, we have full spectrum of steaks. potato's perfect. unidentified yes. hunk of bread, living large on the mississippi. and yes, there is too much food for two people. and yes, that is a whole hell of a lot of meat. and i know it would be awful to waste all that extra. but don't worry because these gentlemen are tired and hungry. welcome, gentlemen. right no, come (ph) on (ph), the corn on the cob here, greens, probably (ph) a (ph) cookie (ph). have a little more of this. oh, looking good. i don't want to say i'm good, but i'm good. all right. more, sir? who's missed a steak here? sir, you got -- who needs steak? i feel all crocodile dundee. beautiful. so all that paddling, how bad am i going to hurt tomorrow? oh, i don't like the sound of that. that hesitation, not a good sign. those tenderloins are nice. good stuff. man, we have mastered the wild today. the mississippi delta is a big sponge that stretches between the yazoo and the mississippi. it's what's called an alluvial flood plain of about 7,000 square miles or almost 4.5 million acres. this area used to look very different -- massive wild, old wood forests and swamps. after the passage of the cheerful-sounding native removal act of 1830, the delta became open for settlement by any white people crazy enough, hardy enough, determined enough or just plain mean and greedy enough to come here. reed julia reed (ph) is greenville born and raised, the daughter of a political family, a writer, author and as delta as it gets. how long you been in mississippi? currence john currence (ph) is a celebrated chef who had left new orleans to come to mississippi and open first one, then many more restaurants and businesses in the town of oxford. and this is doe's eat place in greenville. aloha (ph). reed why, so good to meet you. reed like a lot of folks around here, dominic big doe cigna got his start selling hot tamales to-go. at the beginning, the place catered to the black community. but after word got out how good the food was, white people started coming, which led to a kind of weird accommodation to the segregation of the day. blacks came in the front, white people snuck in the back. the menu expanded with the clientele. what human qualities are unique or marked in the native of mississippi? reed oh, ok. better question, then, how does the life-long delta resident differ from... reed right. reed they feel the same way down there about you guys (ph). reed so what about the food? has this place changed at all in... not much in the way of capital improvements or time motion study. the system such as it is is, well, crazy. they eat right here in the kitchen. and the division of labor, the flow of work, well, i gave up trying to figure it out five minutes in and just figured, i'll get loaded and eat all this delicious food. the salad thing is famous, hand-tossed in the same wooden bowl for decades. the hot tamales, same as they ever was. reed oh, really. reed fries done in cast iron pan on the stovetop, the famous shrimp, steaks on an old roll-out broiler, drippings all over the top. reed oh, that's good. i'm happy. should (ph) at (ph) least (ph) have (ph) mixed (ph) it (ph). yes, hey, that's good. well, you're right about those shrimp. they are delicious. reed is there a dessert that i should be saving room for? reed yes, it's supposed to look like this. the great migration, three factors -- automation, the invention of mechanical means to pick cotton, the call of better-paying jobs in the industries of the north, and of course, freedom. right. state senator willie simmons has been an elected official of the mississippi delta for 20 years. and he's been running this place, senator's place, for 11. what's the difference between soul food and southern -- traditional southern food? now, you're making me hungry. now, you're (ph)... ok, oh, that's it. well, i'll have some of that, for sure. is that fried okra there? i'll have a little of that. might need more than one plate at this rate. let me get some mac and cheese. what's that, lima beans? the red bean -- oh, man, that looks kind of good, too. yes, a little bit of that. neck bones floating around somewhere? unidentified ok, yes, i'll have some of those. little rice and gravy on there, yes, thanks. and oh, i'll have a piece of fried chicken there. if you've got a thigh, that would be great. yes, it is. man, that's good. don't worry, i'll be working on that one. could eat this okra all day long, man. it's good. they're nice. yes, that's tasty. do you see the way people get the credit for southern cooking as we know it? you (ph) see (ph) the (ph) way (ph) people get the credit? i mean... how is the delta, the mindset of the delta, different than the rest of the state? forty-six miles southeast is greenwood, a town with a lot of history, most of it of the not-good variety, known unfortunately as much for byron de la beckwith and tom brady's infamous speech after brown versus the board of education as anything else. fairly or not, it's hard to get past that. during all the years of cruelty and struggle from 1933 on, through it all, and until today, this place, lusco's, was a beloved institution. once a grocery store, it turned restaurant to the moneyed class, serving them in discreet quarters in the pack where one could enjoy an alcoholic beverage in what was then a dry state. still going after all these years, unchanged. why? but maybe, to really tell the story of this place, you have to start with the story of its most famous employee, booker wright. he'd been working at lusco's as a waiter since he was 14 years old. (begin videotape) in 1965, nbc news came to town, making a documentary on race relations. booker's entertaining recitation of the menu at lusco's was famous around town so they asked him to do his usual routine for the camera. (begin videotape) but at the end of his usual litany is where he dropped the truth bomb that nobody was ready for right here. (begin videotape) telling the truth was still risky business in 1966 mississippi. and booker wright was not rewarded for his candor. it was not a good experience for him. it did not make him a star by... yes. the private dining rooms at lusco's are still here. the menu, much the same -- steaks, fish, the famous broiled shrimp, the lusco's special salad with the house italian vinaigrette dressing and a healthy dose of anchovy, onion rings. yes, me, too. yes, yes, love those. catfish for mr. edge, the famous pompano for me. edge it's a big damn fish. no way i'm finishing this. oxford, mississippi is a lovely, incongruously eccentric little island, a mutation, a college town, a magnet for writers, thinkers and oddballs, drawn perhaps by its rich literary tradition is the home of one of our greatest authors, william faulkner. faulkner was a mississippi native, a former postman, an outdoorsman and eventual winner of the nobel prize in literature and two pulitzer prizes for fiction. he never graduated high school. this was his house, rowan oak. faulkner wrote such american classics as "the sound and the fury," "as i lay dying," "light in august" and "absalom, absalom. and many of his works took place in a fictional county, a place very much like this place, in mississippi. for the past 10 years, bill griffith has been curator at william faulkner's estate. so he wrote right -- right on the wall? it's -- it's his man-cave. from as early as 1919 through the early '60s, faulkner wrote extensively about the post-civil war south. he was the first author to do so, at a time when most writers were writing about anything but. right. but? then they bailed (ph) him (ph) out (ph). yes. at any age. was he politically active at all? i mean, there was a lot going on... writers, as i know from looking in my own dark heart, are generally terrible people. put 10 of them together and it's like putting your head in a bag full of snakes. i meet a bunch of them above city grocery, john currence's place on the square. there's the brilliant author, tom franklin and his wife, the poet beth ann fennelly. grisham writer in residence, megan abbott (ph), pendarvis, you know, poet, chiyuma elliott , wright thompson is the senior writer for espn, fellow writer on the series remain (ph), chris hoffman (ph), novelist, ace atkins. poet, derek harrell (ph) is originally from milwaukee, crime novelist billy boyle (ph) from brooklyn. downstairs, currence's restaurant city grocery cranks out many delicious things. the man known as big bad chef, a.k.a. johnny snack, is sending some of those goodies upstairs as there is nothing professional writers like more than free food. they usually put five writers in a room, it's an ugly hell broth of envy, hatred... unidentified if mississippi were a country and there were a national hero, dead or alive, by consensus, statewide, who would -- who would the statue be of? unidentified really? wouldn't it b.b. king? unidentified yes. unidentified why the velvet (ph) ditch (ph)? well, no one here seems too bitter about that. unidentified is there a distinctive barbecue style in the state of mississippi? there isn't really any fixed idea of mississippi barbecue. and other than this place, lamar lounge, john currence's not-for- profit bar/restaurant, there's no other pit-smoked whole hog barbecue in the entire state. a 175-pound pig will feed many mouths. about 250 people eat here a day. now, this is a not-for-profit establishment? is that -- is that right? what kind of socialist, communist are you up to, currence? what -- what -- what's going on here? this is the state of mississippi. me, too. i've been here only a week and my sentences are starting to change already, because there's not just a physical rhythm to the speech, but the way i'm organizing my thoughts is starting to change. some of the oxford writers from last night managed to make it out of bed, heads pounding no doubt, filled with the shame and self-loathing, surely familiar for writers. but like such greats of the past as malcolm lowery, f. scott fitzgerald, and charles bukowski, they, too, have learned that more alcohol first thing will often make you feel better about the world, particularly if accompanied by freshly baked cornbread, biscuits, pulled pork off that whole hog, sweet jerk chicken and brisket. hell, i feel better already. unidentified do you think that's true? unidentified what it is can be found in the dark spaces across the tracks and on the other side of town. unidentified what is a juke joint? you've heard reference to them, no doubt, but -- but what is it? i guess the first thing you've got to know is it's pronounced juke joint. and this one, this is a real good one. scholars have suggested the work juk (ph) came from the gullah, descendants of enslaved africans. and it meant wicked or disorderly, to dance, or a place of shelter. juke joints started in this (ph) plantation community rooms during slavery times. they went on to become the small, private african- american-run bars, clubs and lounges. first in rural areas, then in towns and cities, where workers could dance, drink, party and gamble as respite from the hard labor of delta sharecropping, tenant farming, house service and segregation. they were often condemned by church leaders as houses of the devil. william "po' monkey's" seaberry (ph) runs this place, as he has since 1963. and he makes the rules. how long has this been in business? how did you get into this business? please explain this policy. no hats backwards and no pants hanging down... what other rules here? no rap music. good r&b;? but no rap? never? even if i kanye west wants to rent out the place, you're going to rent it to him? just (ph) in (ph) case (ph). words to live by. thank you, sir. i love your place and thank you for having us. oh, i surely will. oh. unidentified thursday night is family night at po' monkey's, mostly locals, a mixed bag. the music is classic r&b; and pre-disco soul. the attitude, loose. just familiarize yourself with those rules and there won't be a problem. in the cities of the north where i come from, in some ways, we've been able to buy ourselves free from our past. new arrivals pour in with no memory of the ugly parts of our history. we can afford the luxury of the new. we can live in comfortable bubbles, our apartments high in the sky. in many ways, more separate than at anytime in history. but for mississippi, the past is right there to see, still present, and coming to terms with it, not in abstract discussion, but the daily business of life. you're right. yeah, that's sounds like a plan. but first we need crabs for that dinner i'm told, caught in a traditional style. a drink is in order. unidentified all right, cheers. unidentified a lot of crab holes. this time of year, port antonio was literally crawling with crabs. i am told it will be really easy. just scoop up the little bastards and then it's back to the pool. unidentified no, i'm looking, i'll launch at them. it's hot. i think is that rum. unidentified it's sweltering, freaking hot, and dark. unidentified but it doesn't seem to bother the hotel chefs who willing risk dismemberment for the sake of procuring a tasty dinner. unidentified yeah. one crab down, 49 left to go. unidentified i'm, frankly, anxious to get this over with so when the opportunity rises to stick my paw down into a hole where there's probably a pissed-off crab, looking to clamp down my pinky with his pincers, i could careless. nothing. nope, nobody home. unidentified are those fire ants? wonderful. please attack my nutsack. anything to get this over with quicker. unidentified good. and i don't want to kill the little guy. unidentified next. but seems like several sweltering hours later, it's mission accomplished and it's back to home base and time to get ready for dinner at the castle, followed by a party, i'm told. i put this guy in a bag tonight. i'm joined by billionaire michael, his partner jon baker, music producer and hotelier, jon's wife nordia, errol flynn's grandson, luke flynn and his wife sky. ... in this area. what was port antonio like in the '50s? you are a man with a diverse financial interest, banks, communications. as a veteran of 30 years in the hospitality business, why? why would you do such a hard and probably unprofitable thing? i mean, usually unprofitable. it's a really (inaudible) ... no, no. i know the answer. are you a romantic? where does it crossover where all of the things you love about this area, where all of the villas are spanking new and people are building 400-room hotels? is there a threshold where things start to not be the things that you loved about the place in the first place and how do you guard against that? why isn't there lots of -- everybody loves reggae, everybody loves bob marley, everybody loves spicy, delicious jamaican food. what is the problem? that simple, there's no.... jon baker, music producer and you get beat out by a lot of lame islands these days? hello. during world war ii, british naval intelligence officer ian fleming came to jamaica on a secret mission to investigate possible u-boat activity. like the legendary character he would later create, he was a spy. the mission came to nothing but fleming fell immediately in love with the island and vowed to return, which he did, buying this place, goldeneye. at the time considered, very spartan, a cottage, a single room really, a few smaller rooms in the back but an incredible view. he spent much of the rest of his life here writing a book each year at this desk. you know those books. today, fleming's cottage has been enlarged and made more luxurious as a hotel but the original house still stands along with some improvements. bravo, aye? what did every young american boy want? every red-blooded american male born in 1956, i could tell you, they wanted a grotto. it sounded pretty good to be at 12. as i got older, i started to think about this was like exactly who was in that grotto before me, it becomes more of a concern as you grow up. it's like did ron jeremy (ph) just leave the grotto? am i the first one in the grotto? did someone change the water in the grotto? these were concerns later in life, but this was it. i wanted a grotto, i still kind of do. thank you so much. this is totally better than the playboy mansion. you know that the playboy mansion totally smells like old man ear stink. what do we have here? oxtail. unidentified it's such a mix. african, a lot of people totally miss that, i mean curry goats. unidentified chef precis (ph) cook shop has become something of a local institution, a thriving business in a town that's seen better days. how long you've been up in here? unidentified 13 years. unidentified the town changed in that time or stayed the same? unidentified why not? it's one of the most areas in the world. unidentified beautiful weather. unidentified fantastic food. unidentified what do you think went wrong? i mean, why would people stop coming? unidentified it's expanding fast. unidentified the town. and then they're going to be building all the way... unidentified all the way around. unidentified so that's thousands of tourists? unidentified thank you. oh yeah, see now -- now i'm happy. that is just beautiful. nice place to grow up? unidentified what's the life being a kid? unidentified that's pretty good. unidentified who gets to do that? unidentified but i mean do you ever take it for granted? like you ever said -- do you ever get... unidentified you do? unidentified it's inevitable of course, that next door to goldeneye, there would be a james bond beach. unidentified when blackwell heard i wanted to visit the local fisherman, he hooked me up with his good friend, carl, to accompany me. i'm here to hit dr. hoe's, a local rum bar where one can indulge in a typical hard working fisherman's breakfast, rum. so we're drinking rum here? we're drinking beer? are we drinking rum and beer? unidentified but you're recommending just like some beer and some rum together. (crosstalk) unidentified one, yup. unidentified it's good. unidentified so who fishes here? do you fish? unidentified what are you fishing for? unidentified right. unidentified right. so is business better these days or worse these days? ok, worse, right? unidentified oracabessa is a fishing village, for now at least. all throughout the caribbean, fish stocks are in decline and making a living from the sea is getting harder and harder. unidentified so if this becomes a protected sanctuary, what are you going to do for a living? unidentified that means more gas. unidentified is there a future for the traditional fishing industry in jamaica or do you think like every place else in the caribbean, is it going to end up an entirely tourist economy? unidentified and here's what i'm kind of getting at, rich people want to live what they see as a simple life. in their minds, they want to live the life of a jamaican fisherman. so they want to live the life of somebody who doesn't have a lot of money. unidentified but the people who actually do that now are given up their living and essentially entering the tourist sector. there's a certain amount of weird irony at work here. who gets to live in paradise? this architect's model sits in one of goldeneye's offices, showing what oracabessa's coastline will look like if all goes according to plan. unidentified i'm no expert at local politics but whatever is going on here has clearly stirred up some strong emotions. unidentified which is better, to be your own man, uphold family tradition in a dangerous ever shrinking, ever more difficult business, trying to catch fish in the sea or carry a golf bag for a wealthy tourist. i couldn't tell you. i was in the service industry cooking people's food for most of my working life, so it's not like i have anything against it. but i don't know. unidentified who gets to live in paradise? it's jamaica. let's accept as a basic premise that this is about as close to paradise as it gets, right? this place i'm staying was built by a guy who lived here two months out of the year. that place down there is probably the same, two months a year. sad to say, i think it's unlikely that 50 years from now, anyone but the extraordinarily fortunate, the extraordinarily connected and the extraordinarily rich will be able to even look at a vista like this. that is my personal theory. look, here i am, fully aware of the irony of the situation. it's like the whole preservation thing. who preserve for who? save the reef for who? save the beach for whom? not you, probably. later that evening, blackwell invited me to his private bar, just down the cliff from flemming's old villa. there are very few pieces of land anywhere on earth like this, especially with this kind of legendary status. chris blackwell, founder, island chris blackwell is the founder of island records. he is credited with discovering bob marley and spreading the gospel of reggae into the mainstream all across the world. to the extent that one person could sort of be responsible for the soundtrack of your life, you are responsible for much of the soundtrack of my life. you signed roxy music and bryan eno, both. yes? did you have any idea signing bob marley the extent to which his image, alone, would blow up to, you know, che guevara level? having sold island records for a sum rumored to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, blackwell spends his time, well, doing whatever he wants. you have a number of hotel properties, rum business. what's the master plan? or you're just having fun? lately, the project at hand is the oracabessa fish sanctuary set up to protect the local fish habitat and breeding grounds. a noble cause but one that has put blackwell squarely at odds with some of his neighbors. it seems to me that most people who come to jamaica pretty much stay within the compound of, you know, sandals or whatever, and don't really get out there much. is it in inevitability that basically all of the caribbean's that it's essentially going to end up as a service economy? the engine that's going to preserve or save is often dependent on who's coming to look and what they're willing to pay to come and look. can there be a balance do you think, i mean can a place this beautiful be unspoiled, forever? if life were a bond film, who would you be in a bond film? oh, you be the hero? i don't know who'd rather be villain. i'd be like number 17. yes. what we're all looking for, isn't it? the perfect beach? remote, uncluttered by douchery, cold local beer. the perfect end to a long and well, bumpy road. winifred's beach is that beach, mostly locals a few clued-in visitors, white sand, clear, warm water, and of course local food. cynthia and dennis run this place and come highly recommended. i'm told this is the spot for the classic "got to have it or you ain't really been to jamaica," ackee and salt fish. salt cod, redehydrated and cooked with ackee, a local fruit that happens to be toxic if you don't handle it right. now they say best ackee and salt fish. anywhere. and yeah, also some banana. that is delicious. cynthia's friends, joy and marjory also have little restaurants or food stalls on the beach and they tell me that here too, it's in danger of redevelopment, that all these might disappear into ever turning wheel of well ... unidentified so the government takes it over supposedly to make it a public space. but they want to sell it to a -- what a hotel group? unidentified there are a lot of islands in the caribbean where you're not allowed to own a beach, meaning all beaches are public, even if it's a really exclusive hotel at least theoretically, anybody can go. unidentified here it's different. here if you could by a house and the beach. you can -- if you're a hotel, you can make it a private beach, meaning they don't let the locals on or vendors or any. unidentified they can keep people out. unidentified so how many public-accessed beaches are there in this area? unidentified just one. unidentified and that's it. unidentified yeah, what happens if i mean, that would be sort of ridiculous if jamaicans can't go to the beach in jamaica? unidentified there are two sides to every story of course, and the government for its part, claims locals will still have access to their beach. unidentified right. what kind of monstrous human being or organization would displace... unidentified ... the people from their own beach? unidentified what do you think your chances are? do you think your chances are good? unidentified you're going to win? unidentified seven years? unidentified let's face it. there are only so many beaches in this world, even fewer unspoiled beaches. and even fewer beaches like this. i mean, that's one of the things that's nice about this area, is it's not a big resort area like some of the other parts. unidentified and the food is amazing. unidentified you can't get this at the hotel. unidentified right. really, really, really taste, i mean i -- i'm going to have to come back here like tomorrow. unidentified next day, and i know where i'm going. because you never know, because it may not be here that much longer, not like this anyway. sun, sand, rum and ting, and some more food. oh, yeah. hi. wow. what a spread. i'm not going hungry today, beautiful. thank you. i'm so excited. unidentified that is actually quite delicious. you're not missing out on starches. i mean, you get yam, plantain, breadfruit, rice, peas, corn, carrots, dumpling, festival. like the man said, eat dessert first, life is uncertain. that's good. i knew i was coming back here. and it was a smart move to come back here. this place is (inaudible). point being the way world turns, the inevitable grind of history seems to indicate that places like this and people like this, get plowed under, pushed aside, paved over. who owns paradise after all? who in the end gets to own paradise, use paradise or even visit it? that's a question that's probably worth paying attention to, before there's none left at all. how do you do this and be a good person? i don't think you can. like if you wanted to do this regularly for the rest of your life, i would like to spend three months out of the year in a hammock looking out at the caribbean in a secluded beach like this. you'll have to do bad things to do this, right? james bond doesn't get this. james bond's a hustler. he gets this for a couple of days before he moves on to the next location. the guy who lives here is the bond villain, not james bond. ian fleming was much closer to like blofeld or hugo drax. you know, these guys have lots of leisure time sitting around in hammocks, figuring out how to take over the world. lot of downtime in the world domination. bond was a working class. it's what i've been missing. all right, go like summon the robot piranhas. where's my cocktail? unidentified base camp. unidentified just ignore them. darren aronofsky, director of the film's "pi," "requiem for a dream," "the wrestler," "black swan," and as it would turn out, sort of appropriate to our location, "noah." he asked me if he could go along on a trip with us. i said, where do you want to go. so, madagascar. i knew almost nothing about it. i knew it was an animated film that i've seen a lot of times in my car. we're on an island in the indian ocean. with this amazing ethnic mix, incredible landscape. something like 80 percent of the animals here don't exist anywhere else. there we go. an important question. you are a vegetarian. we'll see who is doing better after the end of days. a little social experiment here. madagascar was settled, best we can tell, around 700 a.d. by people from what is know indonesia, later by africans. in 1895, the french took it, killed off a substantial number of people in the process, and as they do, left behind beautiful buildings and the french language. when independence came in 1960, it was sudden and ill prepared for. continuing political incompetence has left most of madagascar's 22 million people living on less than $2 a day. do you know this place? do eat here? first meal in country and i suggested this place. i thought it would be perfect to aaron being a vegetarian and all. this is what you call being passive-aggressive, i think. so what's good here? (foreign language) pork, my favorite vegetable. it sounds good. rossi, a famous musician here, is out of a period out of favor with the previous government back home and elected to parliament. so these days, what are the big issues that are not being taken care of? a lot of people feel that the future should be ecotourism. people should essentially be working in hotels and restaurants for tourists. that's kind of a return to colonialism, isn't it? i'm looking forward to this. it's a very famous dish, goose. very cool. there's always someplace where the flame is kept burning, history kept alive, however faintly. these days in madagascar's capital city, it's left to mariette. during the colonial period, mariette was a frequent culinary ambassador. the go-to chef for visiting presidents and royalty. (foreign language) the success story, her mansion high atop oatville, the former neighborhood of choice for aristocrats and colonizers alike. though semi-retired, mariette continues to entertain guests from time to time. these dishes marry mostly disappeared malagasy royal cuisine with the techniques and training of the classical french. so moisten the rice with a broth? wow, look at this. this is a country that is very rich in natural resources. the best case scenario that everybody seems to raise is ecotourism will save the day. the local people will be what? cleaning rooms, cooking, and performing traditional ethnic dances. to me, this is not an ideal option. and we see it... heading south from tana, it's a very different country out there, where rice is the difference between life and death. between the traditional slash-and-burn agriculture that's existed here since this island was first settled and the imperative of charcoal as heat source, 90 percent of the forests and jungles that covered madagascar are gone. unidentified thanks largely to the work of dr. patricia wright, over 4,000 hectors of forest have been set aside and protected with the creation of ranomafana national park. her recently completed research station is a state-of-the-art complex that reminds one of that cynical spielberg franchise -- what was it -- jurassic merch (ph)? oh, wow. the area provides essential habitat for the golden bamboo lemur, a species dr. wright discovered here in 1986, and the greater bamboo lemur, previously thought extinct. wow. really? what's the biggest pressure on the population? hopefully, that's not an editorial statement. the cyanide not a problem for them? yes, like fiberglass. it'll leave tiny, tiny little sharp... hopes for "black swan 2, the revenge" were dashed today when... has the film "madagascar" been good for the lemur business? the boundaries of ranomafana park protect what they can of madagascar's rapidly diminishing rain forest, but it's not all about lemurs and rare species of unspoiled beautiful places. before the tenalla land can officially become a part of the park, the gods, the ancestors, somebody must be appeased. and that, as it often does, means that something must die. do you see this a lot? for someone with as dark a world view, judging from his films anyway, as the newly vegetarian, mr. aronofsky, he seems unusually uncomfortable with the bleeding realities of local custom. preferring instead to "trip the light fantastic" in the rain forest idle. (foreign language) how do you make this argument, when you're in duress, to protect an area, a forest, when the forest means fuel, food? the ancestors presumably ok with the land transfer, it's time to party. dr. wright worked hard to establish ranomafana park with the stated aim of protecting the absolutely unique flora and fauna here and reducing human pressures on the area. this, however, is the face of human pressure, just so we're clear. wow. sort of a post-apocalyptic wasteland thing going on, right? look, all the original fauna and flora in new york city and chicago and detroit and los angeles are gone. we don't feel too guilty about that. oil pan. (foreign language) most of madagascar's french-built rail network has crumbled into nothingness, but this train still runs. (crosstalk) it's first class. we ride in style. how old is this train? wow, it works. i hope that's not a pitying look i see on some of their faces. they're all looking at us like. (foreign language) it's 162 kilometers to the one-time major port town of manakara. it's both the greatest thing ever, meaning a fantastically scenic immersion into parts of madagascar that most visitors never get to see, and then, at times, punishing crawl. for the majority of the 17 station stops along the line, this train provides the only connection to the outside world. people hop off and on, load and unload fruit, lychees, bananas. while a few foreigners on board watch. and there are vendors selling food and drink, which is increasingly a necessity since as the supposed eight-hour trip is said to sometimes approach 18. right. that smells good. darren woke early and hit the hotel kitchen to make the necessary fresh lychee puree for festive cocktails. oh, yes. it's not bad. it's not bad at all. the lychee makes it. what do we call this? the golden lemur would be good. flashes of everyday life, the struggle to live, to eat, viewed from a moving train, then gone. after seven hours or so... ... the imperatives of food, any food, become ever more urgent. this is it. this is the stop. i am starving. the wonderland of fresh papaya salads along with tasty train station treats we were told would be here, well, it is somewhat suboptimal. yeah, a few of those. we get what we can. that was quite a scene. it's hard to complain about the lack of food options when you look around. this is nice. this is what it's like to wake up at the end of the world. beyond here, to the east, nothing but thousands of miles of indian ocean. morning, and fishermen return with their catch. have you felt how wobbly that boat was coming over? imagine going out in a serious chop with that thing and fishing. manakara was a major port back in the days, a transportation hub, but now, it's a sleepy beach town. that's a disturbingly large spider. i would be unhappy if i saw that coming across my pillow. ah. dude, it's a chicken. a rooster. corpses. dead things. you are such a debbie downer. you're such a downer. he goes out 50 miles in a little canoe? unidentified awesome. unidentified it should be pointed out we bought a lot of food. this sort of spread is not an everyday meal in these parts. there's your veggie platter. there you go, man. unidentified smaller fish? unidentified there you go. it's one of those days where the artifice of making television threatens to move dangerously into cruelty. what are you guys eating over here? who gets to eat and when becomes a pressing concern to the two of us? right. unidentified right. i got you. unidentified it's not like our system but it's a system. the kids are getting ready for theirs over there. and it becomes clear that, yes, everybody will eat. there we go. come to daddy. that's good, dude. you picked a bad time to become a vegetarian. you really did. not bad. the food is amazing. there's some really good cooks at work here today. and really amazing. and then the music starts and the dancing. and as so often happens, the not so spontaneous made-for-tv party becomes a real party. and we all, for a little while anyway, forget about where we came from and where we might be tomorrow. (commercial break) the camera is a liar. it shows everything. it shows nothing. it reveals only what we want. often, what we see is seen only from a window, moving past and then gone. one window. my window. if you'd been here, chances are you would have seen things differently. you've lived it now. looking back, if you were editing this show, how would you tell this story? this is it. this is the food stop. i'm starving. that is quite a scene. here, you kill each other for a reason. it's business? you let him go? why do they always pull their pants down? our local fixer, alex, is here to translate. unidentified they are loading them into the sheet. unidentified to show that they didn't take anything. unidentified how long have you been doing this? unidentified how many bodies do you think? hundreds? unidentified how do you push them out of your mind when you're not working? a lot of people ask him about this. but he said like it's a job, not like any other kind of job, but as soon as he gets home, he just takes this cover off and just keep living. that's a terrible picture. it's sad. what happened here? unidentified the world we live in now, of all of these pictures, this is the one that would get people most upset. you'd get the most mail, the most "oh, my god," you know, "what kind of a world do we live in?" unidentified eighty thousand mexicans have died in the last seven years in narco violence. unidentified everybody wants to be a champion. la tierra those are bad odds. the history of boxing is not kind. i mean, most managers and owners don't give a shit about the fighters. la tierra they use them up, but at the end they leave a guy all broken down, no money and scrambled brains. la tierra in this area, what are your options, if you drop out of high school? la tierra big industry. la tierra why boxing? la tierra who's got a longer career, a narco or a boxer? la tierra you can? la tierra but on the other hand, that's why mexican fighters are so exciting. they're hungry. la tierra right. ok. lost causes. a lot of good smells here, man. a lot of good-looking food. right. what's the saying? alfonso (ph) show your balls to the devil or to... any great old culture where there's poverty, there's something like this. by the way, if you're watching this after you do this, you've really got to wash your hands before you touch your -- ok? that's a rookie mistake. don't go piss right after. yes, it's good. delicious. so this has been open 65 years? is there hope for social change in this country? alfonso (ph) the restaurant business, as i well know, ain't no picnic. and in mexico city, it's particularly rough. garcia runs maximo bistro with his wife, gabriella. here's the kind of extra helping of crap you've got to deal with if you run the hottest restaurant in mexico city. in 2013, the spoiled daughter of the head of mexico's consumer protection agency walks in and demands a table when there's, unsurprisingly, no table available. when garcia says, "sorry, no can do," she pulls a "you know who i am?" and then calls daddy and gets the health inspectors in to shut the place down. (on right. well, it was very embarrassing to the government. because they got caught doing what they do all the time, but if you were not the hottest restaurant in town, you were just running a cantina, you know, a few blocks away... they would have closed you down and that's that. it's going to be like mick jagger, you know, 50 years from now singing "satisfaction." there's no getting away from it, man. this is so good. this is a classic. ... has had any effect in diminishing the flow of drugs into our country. one very brave journalist has uncovered exactly how deep the rot of corruption and dirty money has penetrated into every level of mexican institutions. anabel hernandez, it is not what a lot of people wanted to hear, much less see published. today, anabel hernandez, author of the ground-breaking expose, "los senores del narco," lives under guard in a secret location. the threat, very, very real and very explicit. (on what happened to this man? anabel to me, the weak link are the bankers. a banker who launders money, he's got a family, he's got a reputation, he gives money to charity, his neighbors think he's great, his kids think he's wonderful, but he's got something to lose. so i wouldn't be prosecuting drug dealers. i would be prosecuting bankers. anabel and you have been a journalist for how long? anabel 20 years. your father was killed, kidnapped and killed in 2000? anabel it should be pointed out that 88 journalists, how many journalists have been killed in this country? anabel 90 journalists have now been killed or disappeared over the last few years. anabel you can kill a journalist and get away with it. why are you still here? anabel that's extraordinary. back in the day, it was cheap stuff with a worm in it and there were rumors that if you ate the worm, you would start tripping, there was a hallucinogenic component to mescal. is there a particular kind of high? is this an enlightening high? is this a good high? happy, witty drunk. this is alejandro ruiz olmedo, one of mexico's best chefs. he started cooking young. when he was 12, his mother died and it fell on him to raise and feed his five siblings. today he draws much of his inspiration from oaxaca's central market. and i think most americans' view of mexican food is like beans, fried tortilla, melted cheese, some chicken. in fact, in particular when we're talking about oaxaca, this is a deep, really sophisticated cuisine. like 500,000 varieties of corn. something like that. i mean, this is where the good shit grows. tender. some crunch. oh, unbelievably good. so tasty. mm. man, deep. it's good. i'll finish this. this is just too damn good. so tasty. what most people miss is how really deep and really sophisticated the sauces here can be. like lyon is to france, oaxaca is to mexico, in my experience. not kissing your ass here. i was just in lyon. the way it should taste. old school oh, man. happy. just grab a hunk. yes. i haven't been anywhere in mexico where the cooking is better than here. right. who are these people? right. the last president. right. right. oh. all of it. so this is the way mexico works? mexico can be a dangerous place for journalists, for politicians, for police. is it a dangerous place for artists? right. (commercial break) in 1936, the town of cuernavaca, 50 miles from mexico city, was visited by malcolm lowry, the tormented self-loathing, brilliant and hopelessly alcoholic author. his life work, "under the volcano," was set here. it is widely believed to be one of the great novels of the 20th century. lowry saw symbolism and evil everywhere here. in the deep areas, the looming volcano that towered overhead. writer-poet, javier sicilia, one of cuernavaca's most celebrated residents, has reason to see evil, too. on march 28th, 2011, narcos kidnapped and murdered his son, juan francisco, and six other equally blameless victims. sicilia found himself moved to march to mexico city to demand an end to the increasingly futile so-called war on drugs that was mindlessly grinding up so many victims in the crossfire and in the margins. (on what does he want to say? what does he want people to hear? can he think of one place on earth where the good guys are winning? where you are not ground under the wheels of the machine? have you written a poem since the death of your son? as i have come to know in my own life, drugs, even drug addiction, can be a survivable event. death is not. death is final. you know these images. you grew up with them. they're burned into your brain. their iconic sequences, framed, and lift, and seen through the lens in ways that changed filmmaking forever. all made by the same man. so, who made these beautiful things? where did he come from? it didn't begin in hollywood. it began here, in the streets of budapest. what about his life, his past, his upbringing, led him again and again to look through a piece of glass and make images like these. but first, some context, and schnitzel -- did i mention schnitzel? it's beautiful here. they say that, of course, that budapest is beautiful. but it is, in fact, almost ludicrously beautiful. a riot of gorgeous architectural styles, palaces, grand public spaces, former mansions of various princelings, the remains of a long-gone empire still here, still here. if there was such a thing as building porn, it would be this. just looking out the window as you drive or trolley by, you think, i want that? who lives there? who lived there? what it's like inside? and where did they go? from high up gellerd hill, you get a sense of the layout of the city. divided, split by the danube river, buda on one side, phest on the other. hungary's capital literally divided in two, historically a crossroads of eastern and westerns worlds. which is which now? which is buda and which is pest? peter silahe (ph), budapest right. silahe ok. silahe peter silahe (ph) is a budapest born poet and performance artist. according to the myth i was grows up in, if you are in buda, you're in europe and the other side is asia. this is the border of the roman empire, originally, this big river. right here? silahe why they didn't cross? silahe they've all been here, the silts (ph), the romans, the mongols, the ottoman turks. all had their way or tried. the new york cafe is one of the last remnants of a society where artists and writers were valued citizens, regardless of financial means. when this cafe was built, there were more than 500 cafes in this neighborhood. and this was the biggest and nicest cafe in the world at that time. never to be closed. here, like in most cafes at that time, a few cents or a few bucks could buy you space all day long, sipping your coffee, thinking great thoughts. nobody would hassle you, it was a petri dish of creativity. no hipster neck beard barista would make you feel bad about not speaking any dough. silahe right. silahe don't try that now, of course. today's new-york cafe patrons spend both their time and money on things like goose liver terrine, foie gras is all everywhere in hungary, all over every menu. and it's good, really good. peter's (ph) going for the (inaudible), a soup. silahe right. silahe why do i want to attract writers? it's like, i need more jazz musicians on my restaurant. can that be... silahe ... put your money there. silahe so it was about? silahe we want to be the place that attracts the best and the brightest. silahe even if they don't have money. silahe those days will never return. silahe lovely, thank you. for the main courses, peter gets the fillet of perch. i'm going for the pork throttle stew, mostly because i like the sound of throttle. that is beautiful. that makes me very happy. if i were to ask most hungarians, when were the good old days? silahe right, is this. (off-mike) of course, it's not all foie gras and fine wines. there are other pleasures, just as awesome. maybe, maybe even more awesome, like this. plesharda (ph), a smokey, chilly working class joint run by (inaudible) for the last 25 years and for obvious reasons beloved by locals. unidentified and here is why, look at this. a golden brown pancake pit with chicken livers, covered, nay, drowned with a rich, deeply satisfying sauce of bone marrow. i've got to tell you, this is great. you know, some of you have noticed and complained that i don't really describe food anymore, on the show. that's on deliberate strategy on my part, actually. it's really a lot like writing porn, after you've used the same adjectives over and over (inaudible), penthouse letters. look at it, its chicken livers, bone marrow, paprika, it's a delicious pancake. this is going to make your life better at all if i describe exactly how while smacking my lips annoying you? it's good. venison (ph) stew, delicious. and then this, this. good -- holy -- really? good lord. geez. this i need a photo of, put a human hand next to it. that's just truly terrifying. who eats that? behold the massiveness, the surfboard-sized fried to order in a pan to only the highest standards schnitzel of justice. we are, all of us perhaps, called to serve a higher purpose. put here on earth to do god's mysterious will. daniel matta (ph) is here for this, to spread the gospel of meat, hungarian meat-related wisdom in all its delicious, delicious variety. like saint francis of assisi, he wanders the earth doing good works. in this case, highlighting the ancient arts of butchery, sausage making, and the preparation of many of the lord's creatures, as he himself, would no doubt like to see them prepared. unidentified not much. unidentified 70? unidentified it's very... unidentified and on this particular corner, velbaroshi disznotoros (ph), one of daniel's (ph) favorites. so, you are not a butcher? unidentified what is your -- what do you do? unidentified you are economist. so i understand that you go from butcher shop to butcher shop, investigating all the butchers. unidentified why do you do that? unidentified right. so we have -- so butcher make a fan club. and then i started to write them on facebook a nearly 10,000 likes on facebook and they (inaudible). it's so unusual that there are so many, because in france, in germany, in the states, the old school butchers who know how to do all of these things, they're disappearing. you know, their kids aren't doing it. unidentified right. you mean, prepare... unidentified yes, there are many boutique cuts of meat available, as one would expect from a master butcher. but then there is this, a field of dreams, a landscape of braised, and fried, and cured delights that seem, under glass, to go on forever. unidentified look at that. there he goes, so beautiful. i mean, there's no comparison with a supermarket plus, you could ask... unidentified ... him, what's good today. today, oh, look, what great timing. they're making one of my favorites, blood sausage. you have to say it in english because i can't. paprika. unidentified oregano? (off-mike) thyme. unidentified marjoram. unidentified all spice. unidentified ok. here comes the blood. unidentified beautiful, so good. unidentified it makes flavors pop. beautiful. seasoned and right into the tube. big jokes is coming. unidentified standby for big jokes. unidentified all right. so what do we have here? oh, that looks good, some nice pickles, braced red cabbage. over there, from the mighty shanks of some mythical creature, perhaps, of a (inaudible) or delicousorous (ph) at least, slow braised until the meat is falling off the bone. and let there be blood, delicious, delicious blood, in tube form, served, still steaming, nay, heating, engorged, as you will, with goodness, to squirt across your plate as you press against it with the side of your fork. it's so delicious. so how often do you do this? unidentified what distinguishes a good butcher from an ok butcher? unidentified they're doing good business here. and this is cheap. yeah. unidentified yeah. unidentified right. do you ever just going out for like a salad? unidentified i kid, i kid. there is another long tradition of artistry here in budapest. we grew up with their works, visual artists, photographers, filmmakers, where did they all go? well, world war i happened and with it, the end of the austro- hungarian empire. budapest and all europe changed forever. a decades-long wave of emigration began. a stunning number of the world's great photographers fled their native hungary and took up new lives. eventually, this man joined them. vilmos zsigmond, legendary one thing that hasn't changed through the years is the hungarian affection for taking the waters, marinating in thermal baths, a tradition going back to the romans, continued by the ottomans, and something that survived right through two wars and communism. and they do it in style. who came here back in those days? was this reserved for anyone who wanted to could come here? right. there are many bathhouse spas. baroque, elaborately wedding cakes, built atop mineral rich hot springs gurgling from the earth. none more storied than the geller (ph). so you arrived in budapest around age 21. what was the city like then? when you first moved here, you go to film school, what was your average day like other than your studies? what did you do for fun back then? what were your options? fact, some of vilmos' most powerful and world-changing footage occurred around this time, before leaving hungary, as a film student during the outbreak of revolution, but we'll get to that later. (commercial break) in many ways, vilmos zsigmond's career as one of the great cinematography in film history begins here in zagat, about 200 kilometers south of budapest. here he was raised by his father, who worked many jobs to make ends meet. weekends in warmer months all over hungary, wherever there's a river and fish, places like this are thronged with families, and here along the tisza river is no exception. here young vilmos and his dad would come and eat halaszle, the local specialty of fish soup. how old were you when you first came to this place? that's murky good-looking and need some bread for this, for sure. pike from the river simmered low and slow in a rich fish stock with healthy amount of onions and the near ubiquitous but always good paprika. that's good, right? during the summer, (inaudible) they open the opens and needed side... were you fully aware of how bad, how grave things were? for people of your generation, who grew up, these were incredibly insecure times. psychologically, what do you think that teaches you as far as a world view? do you become more adaptable do you become more suspicious? do you become more cynical? he saw a lot as a young boy, as he would later, as an adult. in 1944, german tanks rolled into hungary. his country was now in the hands of a foreign power, enact for the last time. i grew up in new jersey. my family was sentimental about beautiful pictures, a beautiful script. we saw every film you ever shot and talked about them at the dinner table. these were important. this is got to look pretty close to the way it is, in the old day, yeah? through it all for vilmos, there was this place, however, a very special place for a boy growing up during wartime, the movie house where he saw his first films. so what memorable films did you see in this theater? some films, of course, resonated more than others, the power of the visual image intensified maybe by what was going on just outside that dark room. films could be inspiring, but they could be dangerous. it was so magical to me. i mean, they ought to go to a film, especially a dangerous one, one that was just the subject matter and the content was different and to see that just, oh, my god, what do i do with my life now after seeing it? this theater, by the way, is now named in his honor. (commercial break) when you look at footage you took during the revolution, you're not in those pictures, but do you see yourself? i mean, do you remember what it felt like? there were tanks coming across this? yeah. after the war, a cold war. hungary now found itself firmly in the grip of the soviet union. germans had been replaced by russian commissars and their obedient hungarian functionaries. young vilmos zsigmond was now at film school in budapest learning his craft, along with his best friend who'd also go on to become a legendary cinematographer, laszlo kovacs. then in 1956, something amazing happened. (begin video clip) unidentified to date, this was something that had never been done. the hungarians took to the streets, a revolution. that's when vilmos, and laszlo, and some pals snuck 35 millimeter cameras and film out of their school's equipment room, and at great risk to themselves, joined their countrymen in the streets, documenting the revolt and the aftermath. these images are from some of that historic footage. a scene for ten glorious days, that freedom had finally come. encouraged by the west and by cia radio broadcasts in particular, the hungarians believed that help was on its way, that this was it. they dug in and fought, hoping to hold out until help arrived. on november 4th, a desperate plea went out over the air waves. (begin video clip) unidentified the russians had been beaten back for a time, but now they doubled down with a vengeance, pouring tanks, and troops, and heavy armor back into budapest and brutally and all too effectively put down the resistance. so this was the internal secret police, so if someone came at night with a van and he were taken away, you ended up being interrogated here? hung them here. the building is abandoned. the door, as it turns out, wide open. it still feels sad. a little haunted, yeah? how long did you stick around? you left hungary with a lot of kinds of film? the sound track to old budapest, the ubiquitous gypsy violin, found at one time in every cafe or restaurant. margarite bongo (ph), basically the aretha franklin of hungarian gypsy music, a household name, also a fantastic cook. extraordinary singing talent does not preclude her from overseeing a classic line up of dishes like chicken paprikash, whole perch roasted in bacon, stuffed cabbage filled with goose meat and slow cooked, and of course, the inevitable goulash. the iconic dish you see everywhere, but rarely as good as this. thank you. should i put a little sour cream on there? margarite bongo (ph), aretha franklin of hungarian gypsy beautiful. (off-mike) thank you. unidentified luxurious. if you're a musician and living in budapest right now, this is a good time to be a musician? (foreign language) it's heartbreaking. is sadness an important part of this music? unidentified i mean, hungary is a country that has experimented a lot of heartbreak. unidentified tonight, vilmos has invited me to the home of his longtime friend and college in the film business, richie ram walter (ph). vilmos met richie (ph) on set of a movie more than 20 years ago, and they have been friends and partners ever since. cheers. unidentified i'll never learn to pronounce that. (crosstalk) richie's of wife maria (ph), daughter judith (ph), vilmos' wife susan, friends and family reunite for the best of simple pleasures. we start with a rich carroway, and onion, and paprika soup, finished with homemade croutons. and there's marhaporkolta, a deeply rich, deeply warming beef stew with smoked pork sausage mixed in for good measure, cooked slowly for hours and, of course, heavy on the paprika, traditional cucumber salad, to accompany the soup, (inaudible) boiled dumplings. this is no kind of an answer to me. you've made some of the most iconically beautiful images that, you know, we've known in the modern world. and you keep telling me, "well, i was smart in school, i was good at math or, he was a good... i was touched by god. i don't know. if you're regularly creating the sublime, i'm looking for a metaphysical answer, i don't know. so deeply delicious. thank you. oh, really good, really good, wow. unidentified i'm glad, what a great meal. thank you. do we emerge fully formed with a god-given eye, for pictures, images that can move people? or, are we the end result of all the things we've seen, all the things we've done, the places we've been, the places, the people we've had to leave behind, all that's happened in your life? is it those things that bring the light or the darkness to the blank screen? and what about the faces of those we capture in our magic lenses for a minute, or second, or an hour? afterwards, should we think about them and where they might be now? no, never in this new world. best case in the world, bring syphilis. pretty much. i mean, at the very least. i'm joined by two local chefs, mark naguchi, of mission, known by some as the gooch. his second generation japanese. and andrew le, of the pig and the lady. he's first generation vietnamese american, or would that be vietnamese-hawaiian? as you'll see, it gets complicated. mark naguchi, chef, the how many generations does it what's your feeling here? let me ask you this. you say you're not hawaiian. so you're hawaiian. now we are talking. that's awesome. korea? there's still a movement to a sovereign -- (crosstalk) there's strong movement. so if fighting broke out, which side are you on? (crosstalk) you don't have to think about that. the polynesian voyaging society, with the help of crew members like ninoa thompson, set out to prove that's what did happen. the hokulaia, a double-hulled sailing canoe, a replica of the kind of craft believed to have been used in those times, and only using primitive contemporaneous navigational tools, sailed to 5,500 miles to tahiti and back. the trip that helped spark a hawaiian renaissance, a rebirth of pride and interest in traditional hawaiian culture and identity. thomas is a waterman who continues to sail on hokulaia's missions. native hawaiian, his roots go back in the valley 200 years. he spent many years learning traditional polynesian navigation techniques from a master, now the small micronesian island. still? this one died eventually, likely by exhaustion, as anything else, i suspected. (laughter) (commercial break) people had never been happy about it. but emboldened by times and recent events, a group of young activists decided to take a stand. in 1976, there were a number of attempted occupations of the island in protest of the bombing. none more successful than walter ritte's. he and fellow activist, richard sawyer, sat on the island and refused to leave. managing to evade pursuers for just over a month before finally being arrested in jail. they emerged, of course, heroes. and these protests went on to inspire many others to join the movement. and embodied the independent spirit, the desire for hawaiian empowerment and sovereignty that today resonates across generations. unidentified welcome to what is supposedly the most unwelcoming place in hawaii. unidentified thank you so much. thank you. aloha. this is kahobnui (ph) fish pond, a shared community space with a sacred history. hanuhanu is the caretaker of the fish pond. he's a local community leader here on molikai. also here is the famous walter ritte. 800 years old. who gets to be hawaiian? is it the question, who is hawaiian? really, come on. (crosstalk) don't shit me now. i have to be born here. (crosstalk) come on. this is a different story. beautifully put. wow. right on, bro. (laughter) bourdain i recognize you. (singing) let me ask you just, because i'm a bit of a dick, i have to ask. (crosstalk) (laughter) i have to ask. all right. so we have like 12 more beers. and i pull out some nice masubi (ph). (singing) our christianity is better than yours. i love it. (laughter) so disappointed, no way lived up to your reputation, mean, inward-looking, hostile. admit it. it's a calculated strategy. and leave the message, if you're watching this show, i hope your heart is swelling with admiration. the bottom line, don't come here. how are you? (crosstalk) uncle how do you do. how are you? uncle hi. uncle hello. uncle hello, how are you? uncle hey, brendan, how are you. uncle milton, good to meet you. how does everybody know each other here? uncle ok. why do i even ask? (laughter) unidentified yeah. uncle indeed, all history can be explained what's on your plate. this is a prime example. behold, bitches, the plate lunch. the most identifiable and essential feature of the plate lunch is this, a big scoop or two of white rice and potato-mac salad. there is nothing more hawaiian. served along side a protein, like chicken catsi (ph), or this hamburger steak, burger-like patty drowned in dark sinister sticky, shiny gravy. or vodokakiari (ph), seared hahi (ph) with nori and sesame seeds. oh, yeah, that's going to work. all right. i sit this right on top of the rice. get that sinister gravy on. they may not be hawaiian, but they are now. they're fundamentally local. i mean, this food, the most delicious, let's be honest, delicious. this is not healthy eating. as i said, just so good. so you think traditional hawaiian culture and lifestyle has a chance against the modern world? 12 hours later, you dig it up and, well, it's party time. (on behold. the magnificence. it's a very important part of your childhood. dun, dun, dun, dun. wow. look at that. you just lift the bones out by hand? just dump them in into a bucket. awesome. (laughter) wow. (applause) wow. that's pretty much the way i want to end up. (laughter) pour me into a pot. (laughter) bourdain julio carves up unicorn fish, which he caught himself earlier in the day. chef mark tarbell (ph) stuffs a couple of fresh red snappers before throwing them in the oven. this poi pounded fresh out back. and somewhere pig's foot soup is happily bubbling away. (crosstalk) (laughter) oh, yeah. there is also spam noodles. there is no party without spam. (laughter) by dinner time, the beer, wine and festive beverages have been flowing for hours. also, moods have been adjusted, in a completely natural way indigenous to the islands, of course. (on always bring the ohana, bring the family, bring the kids. you rarely ever see a party where there aren't kids. unidentified extended family. unidentified this is willie k. and that's his daughter, lisette. and it's pretty damn captivating. (singing) it's getting near the end for me. and i look over at shep and see a happy man surrounded by friends, by family really -- his ohana. (singing) (commercial break) that was incredible. the mediterranean sea itself trembles. the ground shakes beneath the wheels of our heavy metal thunder. back in beirut, after all these year years. the first time i was here did not end well. but it made no difference to me. i love it here. in spite of everything, i love it here. (music) bourdain (on really? unidentified i wouldn't throw stones at people on harleys. (laughter) whoa. look at this. that'll work. (cheering) the sheer volume of fire that was poured into some of these buildings is absolutely unbelievable. unidentified over and over and over again. unidentified clearly. unidentified here, block by block, you see the scars from the 15-year civil war that only ended in the '90s. but also nightclubs, discos, beaches, bikinis, where much of the arab world comes to let their hair down. it is an incongruous mix. (music) unidentified news this bourjdalmahaj (ph) neighborhood has long been the home to principally palestinian refugees but more recently it has become an area for syrians fleeing the arms of president assad on one hand and the predations of isis on the other. the camp saw heavy fighting, shelling and outright massacres during the religious conflict known as the lebanese civil war. everywhere, you see posters representing a full menu of political factions and affiliations from assad loyalists to the plo to every flavor of extremist. unidentified close to two million people from syria alone? paton that's a hell of a lot to be absorbed by a tiny little nation of, what, 4.5 million. paton we'll follow you. unidentified english the name is (inaudible). being stopped at any of the city's ubiquitous military check points could mean a one-way ticket back to syria. trapped, unable to work, they exist invisibly on the margins of society. unidentified english yeah. unidentified english mo is a local security specialist on assignment to keep, well, me and my crew safe from harm. he lives with his daughter, bushra (ph), and family in rost (ph), beirut, a mixed neighborhood of christians, muslims and jews. (on so good. very good fish. i missed this country. i really did. unidentified security this is my third time. unidentified security my first time was 2006. unidentified security we came here and we had two perfect days and then the war broke out. it is a democracy here. unidentified security so what's it look like now? unidentified security oh, wow, that's not good. unidentified security i was watching the news last night in the hotel and it is genuinely terrifying. unidentified security you get used to it. are you concerned or optimistic? unidentified daughter of do your friends feel the same way? unidentified daughter of your friends are less optimistic? unidentified daughter of is that -- why, yes. yes, i think it is. ironic glasses, vintage clothing and neck beards. it appears the brooklyn strain has spread even to beirut. unidentified how is it possible that this mix of religions and cultures? lebanese free-style legend, hussein, aka, double a, the preacherman. (on what? double these are beard related issues. double hip hop? double what is it about hip hop? double thank you so much for having me in your home. unidentified thank you. i was in beirut in 2006. this neighborhood was hit very hard. unidentified were you here at that time? unidentified why this neighborhood? unidentified hezbollah means the party of god. they are a shia military political organization lavishly supported by iran. the party is more powerful, more effective on the ground than the lebanese army. the united states officially designates them a terrorist organization. in 1983, they did this, the u.s. embassy bombing. and this, the marine barracks at beirut's airport. 299 united states and french servicemen were killed. unidentified they are dangerous. they are well funded. and whatever else they may be, they are not stupid. unidentified my host's support for hezbollah, typical of diahad (ph) neighborhood in south beirut, is staunch. unidentified for you? unidentified what's the most important thing happening in the world right now that needs to be resolved for things to be better? unidentified isis is number one? unidentified correct. unidentified 20 years, 30 years? unidentified will things be better? unidentified who is buying these apartments? who are they four? right, for whom beirut is a relatively liberal wonderland, compared to riyad, for instance. fried. stuffed grape, please. the fact that lebanon and beirut, in particular, works at all. all of these religious groups have different interests. this is a fully functioning, more or less, by world standards. yeah, this is a -- it's sort of awesome. am i wrong to love this place? should people come here? there have been two attempts on your life, yes? leftiarus that you're aware of. leftiarus a young militant, an activist, a labor organizer. you have been arrested in your life? leftiarus who needs culture? leftiarus if you were the emperor of the world, hypothetically. leftiarus hopefully, what would beirut be like in 10 years? leftiarus hi. this feels very formal. unidentified but it's not, so please relax. unidentified by all means, yes, please. unidentified oh, thank you. unidentified i saw you went for that first. unidentified it's delicious. unidentified what do you think? will they renew your visa? unidentified do they the arrest you? do they take you to the border and kick you over to the other side? how does that - unidentified what happens if you go back to syria? unidentified how different is damascus from beirut? unidentified is all of the chaos and the violence worth it for change? is it worth dying for? i mean, things were, there was order. when you grew up, there was order? unidentified no freedom, but order. would you go back to that? unidentified you have never been able to yell out loud, and you have never been able to do the things that you could do right now, you would go back? unidentified you were alive? unidentified a communist-themed bar located in a housing block. (on well, we should drink it and not try to figure it out. vodka. i had somebody who lives here tell me, oh, this place is very good, and stay the here longer. and i was like, what? (laughter) you are trying to kill us, man. who is this man? he is trying to hurt us. cheers. -- enter ernesto. unidentified yeah, yeah. unidentified i know. unidentified yeah? unidentified is it lamb? unidentified oh, man, that is good. unidentified are we picking up a gun or not? (crosstalk) unidentified i'm not. unidentified they have the worst neighbor problems in the world. it is amazing that it persists. unidentified oh, enchanted land of my childhood, a cultural petri dish from which regularly issues forth greatness. new jersey, in case you didn't know it, has got beaches, beautiful beaches, and they're not all crawling with raging trolls with reality shows. i grew up summering on those beaches and they're awesome. jersey's got farmland, beautiful bedroom communities where that woman from "real housewives" who looks like dr. zayas (ph) does not live, nor anyone like her. even the refineries, the endless clover leaves of turnpikes and expressways twisting in unknowable patterns over the wetlands are to me somehow beautiful. to know jersey is to love her. ft. lee, you may have heard of it. some of governor christie's minions allegedly conspired to jam up traffic for a few days. it's a town with a jokey history of corruption. it's also where my beloved hiram's is, opened since 1932 and pretty much unchanged ever since. my dad started bringing me and my younger brother, chris, here in the 50s and they still honor tradition. (on it always took three extra hours with a loaded-down car. there was always drama. strapping crap to the roof of the car. yeah, definitely. i think i know who lived there at one point. chris that's definitely old school. let's face it. it's been how many years? 40 -- chris 400, i think. jesus, we're old. the lighthouse. chris definitely remember going to that lighthouse a lot. oh, the good old days. (laughter) i want some fried clam strips. chris absolutely. our options are limited, shall we say, but -- holy crap, this place is filling up. chris i think it's because it's the only place. still, who lives out here year round? chris we're about to see every single one of them. let's be honest. when we came here in the summer summers, i was the bad one. chris yes, yes. your recollection is correct. i was up to every variety of anti-social behavior down here. i didn't smoke dope for the first time here. i was looking for dope, but as a 12-year-old it was hard to come by. chris i remember you vaguely you walking off with some sort of cute girl. first kiss. that was an important passage. that's good. chris it is good. i realize now i hitchhiked regularly. chris yeah. mom, dad, i'm going to go to ship bottom tonight with some friends. how are you getting there? hitchhiking. ok. have fun. chris all the kids hitchhiked. that's how you got places here. summertime. you know that sound? just out of the water, ears pressed up against the beach blanket, the squeak of bare feet on sand nearby, classics illustrated comics waited for me back at the house. i'd play with my little plastic army men in the dunes. and there's a smell of beach grass in the dunes. you remember it? chris i still crave it. i love it. bourdain it was great. people you knew from last year were here. a lot of them in the street. the parents didn't need to be with you. have a camp fire on the beach at night. firecrackers, all this stuff they wouldn't let you do at home. the beach would look different. for a couple of days, the whole beach would be this weird foamy surf, like frothy bubbling. now we're talking. chris or there would be the jelly fish sometimes where there would be -- infestation of jelly fish, right. i try to block that out. chris that wonderful feeling that you were with other 10 year old along the bank, along the beach. it was great. i love clam strips. chris these are great. these are awesome. so far, so great. i'm happy. battered piece of fish with some good tartar sauce. what were your favorite activities? chris building a campfire on the beach. overturning the lifeguard stand. chris yes. firecrackers on the beach. firecrackers on the beach. chris i have some firecrackers in your car, by the way. just saying. set them off in the elevator at the casino. (laughter) chris perfect. perfect. thank you. there was still remnants of the '20s. gold it was a wonderland of juvenile delinquency. everybody was buying plastic dog crap and -- gold -- vomit and smoke powder. it was just something very sinister and forbidden. and my parents indulged me when i was here. beautiful buildings are beautiful buildings. a beautiful view is a beautiful view forever. gold there's no other place with this kind of history and legitimacy. this place has deep romantic allure. gold hundreds of businesses used to be here. it's not a matter of, gee, that would be great if that happened again. it is inevitable that it will happen again. it's worth fixing. atlantic city can be chic easily because the bones, the skeleton of the city are beautiful. gold there is even, in young people, particularly now, beautiful old things. a beautiful old restaurant with really great food -- gold -- is much more interesting than a glass box with good food. (commercial break) the names of atlantic city streets were imprinted on generations of americans who grew up playing monopoly. drive down ventnor avenue today and you see history. te ebb and flow of america's hopes and dreams played out in the buildings and homes you see as you pass by. magnificent mansions mixed in with inexpensive two-family houses, cheap takeout, the footprints of a lost world. the riviera of the northeast still there if you look between. with jet travel in miami and an expanded highway system, things declined, as they do. but a few visionary geniuses presented a solution, a cure that would overnight make everybody well, make atlantic city shiny and new and prosperous again. men like donald trump. (begin video clip) donald trump, ceo, trump vast new xanadus would be construction. and would-be kubla khan's rushed to atlantic city eager to tap into what was assured to be a never-ending gusher of prosperity, casino gambling. (on no, i don't. it was nuts. it's economics 101. some nice crab cake, at dock's, a big freaking lobster stuffed with crab imperial, plum souffle. those things are bad for business, the business of taking your money. (on all right. proud long-time residents of new jersey? picking up the speed? born and bred? when was the first time you played atlantic city? oh, i know that feeling. is there a specifically jersey sense of humor that you've noticed? they see refineries. i think it's beautiful? new jersey is the embroidery capital of the world. apparently. i don't know where that's happening. this is a taste of my youth. for all of the things about new jersey, will people ever come across the bridge and the tunnel in the other direction? let's go out to a club in jersey. trump, i'm not a fan. every minute that he walks, it demands a certain complicity to not shout out, look at that ridiculous looking -- (laughter) -- head. it's like if you have a disfigurement. that tacit agreement i'm not going to bring it up. that's too much to ask of me in trump's case. i want to scream. there are few american cities, places where things have gone as disastrously wrong as camden, new jersey. it's like the poster child for everything a city can screw up. once a manufacturing power house, home to the new york shipbuilding corporation, the campbell soup company, and rca victor records, a company town. about 80,000 people live here today. that's the same number of people who were employed in its heyday. nearly 40 percent of the city's high school students don't graduate. the entire police force replaced by the state. more than one-third of city residents live below the poverty line. voter turnout, not good. if there's any place one can be forgiven for just throwing your hands up in the air and giving up, it's here. but no. cities with serious problems need extraordinary people. and tawanda jones is clearly an extraordinary person. tawanda jones, new jersey her late grandfather, walter green jr, was a former military man, and employee of rca and a body guard for the great boxer, jersey joe walcott. he was also a man who believed in being part of the community. when tawanda was 15, she was asked to lead a local drill team. unfortunately, it soon lost its funding. walter purchased uniforms and drums to get it its start. (chanting) today, css, the camden sophisticated sisters drill team, which includes the distinguished brothers in taps, the almighty percussion sound, have over 320 participants. (music) what was camden like back in the good ole days? you were talking about your childhood as if it was a real long time ago. it's not that long ago. (laughter) what the hell went wrong? you're putting it principally on the parents. this is tasty. so the conventional wisdom seems to be, get out of camden. why are you still here? all weather type of a situation. that's nice. how do you keep the kids off the corner? they're doing it because it's fun. but it's hard. and they're doing it. you're asking people to do a hard thing and they're doing it. and i got to ask, i'm going to guess in the years that you've been doing this you've had to have had your heartbroken many times. you've had to see kids that you've really believed in fall by the wayside and i'm guessing a lot. how do you go on? how do you not become cynical? do you harden your heart? 25 years down the road, what do you think camden is going to be like? you're going to stay? his son, robert, runs the joint now. this is what they do here. behold, the jersey cheesesteak. new jersey, period? is there a difference between jersey style and philadelphia style? really. i'll have one of those. that's the way to go. anything i need to know? beautiful. a little bit? i drove a long way for this. i was thinking about it the whole way. man, this should be like national landmark right away. this sandwich is unbelievably good. really a thing of beauty. (inaudible) no way. philly? wow. that's treason. do they change their plates on their car or wear a disguise? (laughter) yeah, i like this role. it's awesome. it's delicious. i think we' got something here today. jersey cheesesteaks, i'm not saying they're better than philadelphia -- yeah, i am actually. this is great. when i was a kid, as we passed through the pine barrens on the way to the shore, we'd joke about pineys, the strange, possible inbred tribes of people who lived out there -- (singing) -- somewhere between the trees. (singing) that's what we believed anyway. paul evans peterson, jeweler, musician, author, and proud piney. we meet at the disconcertingly friendly lucille's in warren grove for a delicious breakfast. paul evans peterson, musician, author & a goat is a little bit scarier. (singing) what's out there? who are pineys? do they roam the forests at night searching for souls to capture? how do you make your living? the pine barrens have settled it for a long time. thank you. all right. thank you. so, it's not like the rest of jersey here. that's good, by the way. that's really good. springsteen, bon jovi, little stephen, but before them there was this man, southside johnny, who pretty much created the template for the jersey sound. and it could have only been this place that changed music and lyrics forever. (singing) (on most bars don't hire musicians. they don't hire bands. they're too much trouble -- (crosstalk) southside atlantic city didn't have that reputation? southside right. (music) bourdain it's such a beautiful thing that they shred the lettuce and everything. you used to come here as a kid? exactly. the limits of how much you can break the rules before it tilts. southside i think so, too. southside tilt. southside that's what they all say. (crosstalk) southside as i like to say, good is good forever. the atlantic ocean will always be magnificent. looking at it, always a humbling, even educational experience. it teaches us that men come and go. but no matter how foolish or outsized their dreams, how badly they screw up, what we do here at the ocean's edge, the sea will outlast us. will always draw us to her edges. when necessary, it will crush us. (on yeah. and that has got to be the most butt-ugly building ever. (laughter) chris i noticed last night that some of the lights on the sign of the building are out. yeah. chris it's like truck. something like that. chris or tump. or rump. it is perfect, actually, if you think of trump as carnival barker. his operation is designed to attract ruse and empty. chris yeah. sort of a perfect metaphor here. chris yeah. bourdain i remember it was hard to chew. you had braces, remember? this was probably problematic for it. chris i don't know. i can't remember having braces at that point. i don't like candy generally but these have a mystical hold on me. even the color of the wrapper has this weird, you know, like there should be music playing in the background. molasses, i remember that. getting a bunch of those. i don't know why. certain flavors really resonate. the peanut, i know exactly what that tastes like. i remember the vanilla. really powerfully. i'm not even a vanilla guy. i'm more of a chocolate guy. chris i think i remember pink ones. they must have had strawberry. winter green i remember. chris licorice sounds good. peppermints. keep these in the car. chris looks like cookies and cream. does it melt? that's a lot of taffy. chris yeah. this stuff isn't bad for you. eat as much as you want. chris is it gluten free? it's all natural. chris that's what i thought. (music) bourdain no, thank you. unidentified thank you so much. unidentified sort of. unidentified no, i've been in a number of times before. i haven't been in the oldest pub before. oldest in -- unidentified 1510. amazing. but in the end, 55 percent of scotts voted to stay in the union. that left almost half the population still hungry for independence. and with 17.5 percent of teenagers voting yes, england had its undies in very much in a bunch over the possibility of an unraveling of the union with scotland. it's an idea that is overwhelmingly popular in this city above all others. (cheering) unidentified why does the possibility of independence have such a powerful hold on glasgow? the past. glasgow has along endured, among other things, a reputation for being the most violent area in the u.k. it's a familiar cycle, analogous in many ways to what we see detective john carnochan, 38 years on the job, much of it is murder police on the east side. he's seen it all. confronted with violent hooliganism, the traditional approach has been to get out there, bust some heads, lock up some perpetrators. but after decades of dealing with generation after generation of violence, much of it gang related, he took a controversial new tactic. along with a colleague, he established a new unit within the strathclyde police called the violence reduction effort and focused their efforts on the social problems that he felt led directly to violent crime. his peers, unsurprisingly, we dubious. but as of 2014, scotland is at a 40 year low of violent crime. retired from the force, carnochan now advices law enforcement around the world. when in town, though, he likes to come here, typical scottish fare, mother india, for a lamb curry served in spicy gravy served with traditional non-scottish bread. i've never, ever, ever felt -- and i've done a fair amount of stupid behavior here, a fair amount of drinking, a fair amount of putting myself in the sort of situations they advise visitors to a new town not to take. (laughter) i've never felt uncomfortable here. i could be wrong in that, after a few drinks, i notice that i don't understand anyone. (laughter) they could be making various threats of violence to me at the bar, and i could just be smiling and nodding. (laughter) a good number of americans probably still believe that very much. we're very fond of throwing people in prison. to suggest otherwise would be seen as coddling criminals. first of all, it's not what i expect to hear from somebody who spent 30 years with murder police, presumably busting heads and arresting people, that we should hug these bastards more? that we should make them feel like they're worth something. i mean, i get it. i believe it, absolutely. but everything you've been saying is no way to run for office in my country. (laughter) they're worried about the newscasts on monday at so what's going right here? let's face it, this is one of the most awesome cities anywhere. no one excels more at deflating the pompous, making fun of self-importance, turning even the darkest tragedy into comedy than glaswegians. unidentified that is, if you can understand the bastards. unidentified this can be a challenge, particularly after a few pints of heavy or a couple of bottles of buckfast. (cheering) unidentified i've always found it to be this funny -- -- very funny town. i mean -- (crosstalk) i mean, the story is that the health-wise, as far as heart problems, right behind tonga. the all-time worse, least healthy -- the toughness thing is no joke. if you ever tried to choke a small glaswegian into unconsciousness, as i have -- long story -- let me tell you, it is like wrestling with an angry fire plug. it's nearly impossible. also it hurts. access to guns is extremely difficult here. so scottish hoodlums, unable to dispatch their victims with the kind of speed and efficiently as we enjoy in the good old usa, this led traditionally to resort to the knife to do its maiming and killing. the old-country way, one person at a time. mark davies, owner, tactical where knife violence is an affliction, there must be a cure. meet mark davis. he began his career working as a bouncer in some of the east side's toughest drinking establishments where he had plenty of opportunities to hone his skill. now he runs tactical edge, teaching close combat and knife defense to u.k. special operators and security companies. come at him with a knife, the overwhelming likelihood is that it will soon be hanging out of your ass. (on and pretty much nobody outside of "friday 13th," in my experience, has ever come at anybody like this. (laughter) if somebody does come, they're rushing at you with multiple -- (crosstalk) -- in a manic frenzy of multiple jabbing or slashing movements. is your first order of business deflecting or getting the knife away from them? right. show me. that was an education. i enjoyed that. (laughter) (commercial break) (shouting) (music) heading north out of glasgow, scotland quickly becomes something else. a savagely beautiful, harsh, but absolutely mesmerizing landscape that seems to have changed not at all for thousands, even millions of years. and across loch mare, and only accessible by boat, one of the great isolated this bread sauce thing, what is that? right. right, right. so good. nine years as a vegetarian, that's unthinkable to me. right. you've got to be accountable. (on yeah. is that good? yeah. oh. (laughter) ah. (laughter) oh, ok. yeah. you going, chaps? i thought coming up my legs burning, i can't wait until that nice easy downhill walk back, but as i soon find out, the walk down is even harder. knees screaming, face crusted with dry blood, i'm looking forward to a warm fire, a strong whiskey and some good country ass cooking. (commercial break) (music) they always marinate juniper and all of that. super simple. (on yeah. literally, the greatest feat of strength of my entire life. never at any time in my entire life have i done anything so remotely physical over a sustained period of time. never. at no point previously in my life would i have been able to do it. thank you, guys. i came to scotland this time to shoot an animal in the heart, to take part, to be fully culpable in a practice nearly as old as these hills. you walk this country stalking an animal across the rocks and wet heather, you feel little has changed from how your distant ancestors must have searched for their food, with a rifle, with a spear, with a club. i drag my knuckles up a hill and like my ape-like predecessors, return tired, happy and covered in blood. everything changes. nothing changes at all. miami, it's a big place. bigger and more multifaceted than it's given credit for. unidentified we tend over the years to focus on miami's -- how shall i put this -- party zone. (music) it's the kind of place we say, "that could never be me," and then it is. (music) it's a temptation that's almost irresistible, the seductions of flash, of palm trees, balmy nights, deco architecture, the manufactured dreams of many television shows made real. but across the causeway a few miles down the way there are other worlds, older ones. i think it's safe to say better ones. (music) way out west, 20 miles from the airport, tucked in yet another strip mall, is islas canarias. and you go there because, well, you need coffee, and because cuba, respect, and because michelle bernstein is there. (on what's beyond here? ah, body disposal? well, you have the waiters in the little bolero jacket-type things or a bow tie. it is basically like the coffee version, the caffeine version of a one-hitter. you're basically, so i'd have one of those. at the next place, i'd have another. and i increasingly get jangling as i head towards work or whatever my final destination. that's good. so this is a nonjudgmental land, miami? it's good coffee. really? it pisses me off. you know people try to improve on this. good. a lot of thought is given to the structure of the sandwich. yeah. this is the perfect breakfast, right? i don't care about sweet things. if i have to give up one course of the meal, it's the dessert. you know how it's -- (crosstalk) cheese over dessert any day. i know. you look good. you look good. if i look that good when i'm 60, i'll be happy. matt klein came to miami in 1945 from new york's lower east side by way of the battle of normandy. by the fall of 1942, more than 78,000 troops were living in more than 300 hotels in miami and miami beach. (on yeah. it makes sense, too. i love this place. i mean i love it. it's my favorite bar in miami. to many more. (commercial break) (music) bourdain right. so where's the money now? how's business in general in miami and where is that business coming from? if it is money looted from another country, do we care? trickle down. he seems to like you much better than me. (laughter) really? -- a deejay. what makes the miami sound different from the detroit sound, the philadelphia sound, the new york sound, whatever? once called 77 elvis pancakes? chocolate chip pancakes, bourbon maple syrup, banana compote and peanut butter. even if you're not the king, you'll want to die on the toilet like he did after this carbo load. (on no, look, i understand people deeply love them and i do like waffles and i do like fried chicken. put them on separate plates and i'm ok. (laughter) shrimp and grits, a southern classic made with florida shrimp, virginia ham, and south carolina stone-ground grits. (on "aqualung," jethro tull, i whipped into a murderous rage right away. even now. i'm angry that that band ever existed. i hate that whole englishy, old, bar minstrelly, stand-on-one-leg mother (expletive deleted). i hate that (expletive deleted). (laughter) you never know when you play music, were they molested by a rodeo clown to that song. (crosstalk) and jethro tull is my version of that. (laughter) (commercial break) these days, liberty city is mostly ignored by developers, but back in the day, it was the epicenter of the black community. a lot has happened since then. (singing) unidentified your parents were jamaican and bahamian? south american and -- very, very different. how has that mix, how has that impacted the music? i've seen this on television. (laughter) among your other accomplishments, you ran for office? about 70 percent residents of miami speak spanish at home? enormous african-american and afro-caribbean community. how come they keep electing conservative white guys? it's the opposite of get-out-the-vote program, which is don't bother to vote. if you were selling miami to somebody, what's the best thing about miami? how do you handle the cold if you have to tour or something in detroit or chicago or something? this is really good. that's so good. what's the best thing about miami? what's the worst thing? right. to what do you attribute this? when is the last time you went to the beach? what the (expletive deleted) is up with that? if you weren't working, do you think you'd be at the beach more often? ok. (laughter) (commercial break) (singing) the music, the original miami sound we're talking about, came from this man, willie clark, and this space. (on willie clark and his business partner, johnny pearsall, started deep city recording and promoting local talent out of johnny's record shop. the label became a showcase for artists like betty wright, and helene smith, frank williams and the rocketeers, johnny killens and the dynamites. (on 1200 songs. william and his writing partner, clarence "blowfly" reid, wrote such classics as "clean up woman" and "rocking chair" and "willie and able." deep city was miami's answer to motown, a unique sound. (on right. and you were teaching school through a lot of this? yep. you're still out there so your songs are still being played, still being sampled, which is good. the collectors must go crazy, maniac collectors in europe and japan. this is an island, isn't it? it is kind of an island. most people in miami speak spanish at home. unidentified a lot over half. unidentified i think i'm going to start crying. all right. i'm going in. good god. unidentified it's delicious, but -- unidentified there's no way this thing is holding together until the last bite. unidentified this is open until bob desavato (ph), aka captain bob, however is still here and still living on his boat in the miami river. desavato i've had many friends over the years who live on boats, work on boats, but these were just degenerate wind addicts. desavato how long do you think you've got? desavato yeah. desavato coming closer. desavato you're not moving onto land anytime soon, if you can avoid it? desavato 15 years. you're a floridian? iggy was it a conceivable option at any point, when you said, i can live in florida? so we're eating healthy today. what do you like here? in a lot of ways, as far as looking after my health, your music early on was a negative example. and looking at my own life and career, i'm pretty much known for traveling around the world and recklessly drinking and eating to excess. what does it say about us that you're now sitting in a healthy restaurant? i just came from the gym. and we're in florida. what's the perfect day in miami? you're the template for the rock star, meaning other rock stars sort of look to you to figure out, how should i behave? along with that, look, even at its -- even if you're broke, i you're a guy at various points in life has pretty much been able to have a lot of things ordinary people would never have. you've had many, many adventures. given that, what thrills you? is this the reward phase of your life or just -- see, i think you deserve it. but when i look at my own life, you know, i'm actually -- i'm ambivalent. i mean, i'm still not so sure. you know? it's my only virtue. good to be here, again. unidentified love it here. unidentified thank you. unidentified this is claudio and maurelia. it's good to have friends in a place like salvador. in fact, you're pretty much lost without them. unidentified tuesday night in (inaudible). unidentified you have to work tomorrow, right? unidentified i guess that's brazil, right? unidentified so, how different is salvador from rio and sao paulo? unidentified pelourinho, pelo for short, was salvador during the portuguese colonial period. it's almost always a party, a series of parties, actually, but tonight is special. unidentified smells good. unidentified oh, that's good. unidentified where to next? (inaudible) unidentified what is it? unidentified alcohol? unidentified alcohol of unknown original in dispensed from atop the head of a stranger? it's good. mama always said that was a good idea. i don't know if it's the booze or the music or the tropical heat, but after awhile bouncing from place to place, wandering down old cobblestone streets, different music issuing from everywhere, a different party, people flowing out of buildings, one gathering, commingling with another, the music mixing, it really does seem that everybody is moving to some mysterious unknowable pulse, some unheard throb that moves people to constantly touch each other, stroke hips, necks, limbs. it is useful to know that of over 12 million africans dragged, ripped and kidnapped from their homelands, nearly five million ended up in brazil. 1.5 million of them in bahia alone. here, though, one man stands alone. jayme figura a poet, sculptor, painter, musician, now perhaps his own greatest artistic creation. he's chosen to hide his face from view and to stand in opposition, an eyesore, a rebuke, a defiant war-like embarrassment to the occupiers. as he dresses now, this is for protection but as i understand, also protest. unidentified who's the enemy? how long have you been wearing the armor? how long? 46 years. that was a long time ago. you ever been on the beach? are you goth, dude. just down from where we're sitting, gymez(ph) pelourinho studio. his water and power have been shut off but he insists he's going nowhere. brazil is supposed to be about what, music, dancing, sun, hot women. does he reject those things? does he think that's bull? where would the perfect place be? unidentified rock city. that's detroit. unidentified detroit, rock city. what music inspires him? iron maiden. i think they're touring, actually. metallica? beethoven. what do you think about all of this? anybody who comes here recognizes immediately that this is a really uniquely extraordinary and despite many problems, a uniquely wonderful, magical place. unidentified so, what is the real pelourinho? i don't like pina coladas but i like walking in the rain. i like wandering through markets as much as the next guy, but what i really like are neurotoxins. in japan, they call it fugu. yeah, yeah, yeah, it's eyes, ovaries and internal organs are just packed with varying amounts of toxins and some hysterical mini's(ph) will tell you the tetrodotoxin present in the blowfish is 1200 times more potent than cyanide and they'll tell you how if it's consumed, you remain conscious while your muscles gradually become paralyzed and death, like a slow-moving freight train, moves closer and closer. and whatever you do, just make sure you cut out that liver. i say bull. so, we're eating blowfish. like the japanese, they like the poisons? unidentified but they remove the liver and the skin? unidentified right. properly, right. i saw a simpsons episode, i think. unidentified poisonous blowfish will take a recipe. add to said fish, lemon, coriander, onion, tomato, coconut milk, dende oil, cover and simmer. i am confident in this cook i don't know. and in this man, bel borba(ph) my host and an aficionado of this dish. smelling good. bel borba, thank you. unidentified oh, yeah. good pepper. nice and spicy. i can't feel my legs. is that a bad thing? bel is an artist, after all. a very famous one. so, he knows about neurotoxins. he comes from a long tradition of artists who have found inspiration in bahia. is there something about salvador you think that's conducive to an artistic sensibility? there is so much color here and music. the light is really special. i mean, just the colors of the city are amazing. the colors of the people are amazing, and the way they move. i don't know, when i first came here, i thought everybody in this city looks like they just got or they're on their way to go. (laughter) so, this was the central market back before supermarkets, this is where everybody did their shopping, right? unidentified right. unidentified oh, yeah. unidentified and i love the dende oil. you know, it takes some getting used to. the first time i was here, you know, you eat it, you ship like a mink for hours afterwards. but now, no problems. i've been eating this all week. love it. you spend time in brazil... unidentified there you go buddy. hope you like spicy. he's a brazilian cat. he's got to like spicy. unidentified a little cachuchas. unidentified told you. that will set you right. unidentified right. we're coming up to the world cup and i know a lot of people will be reading about crime and all that. how do you think it's gonna go, the world cup? disaster or it's going to somehow work out? unidentified you think it will be a success. unidentified salvador is one of the host cities for the 2014 world cup. a huge stadium has recently been completed, but a lot of people are worried, concerned, if brazil is ready. i've been told thousands of prostitutes are studying tourist-appropriate languages in preparation, so probably a lot of people are gonna get laid, a lot of people are gonna get robbed, a lot of people are gonna get laid and robbed. unidentified no. unidentified and that works out, right? that's not a slaughter fest. unidentified right. unidentified i think salvador in particular is a place where... unidentified no, buddy, thank you. no matter what, people should come. even people who are afraid to travel, who say oh, well, but i hear. no, you know what, this is, live your life, man. you should not miss a place like this, because there aren't a lot of places in the world that even come close to this. unidentified yeah, i'm pretty sure. unidentified i'm pretty sure mr. muffin stuff over here is gonna suddenly going to jump on, he start clawing my face. unidentified i didn't think of that. we call you canary. unidentified no. (commercial break) unidentified the bay of all saints, a vast natural harbor allowed salvador to prosper. tucked along its shore, if you look hard enough, you'll find a small grouping of shacks roofed in corrugated tin. this is where a local fishermen's association brings their catch to sell to wholesalers, and then relax after a long day on the water. meet, maloca, a very special guy. he's been working as our head of security and as for reasons that are immediately obvious, he enjoys respect and reputation on the streets. but he also comes out of this neighborhood and these guys are his friends. how's business now? i mean, lot of fish out there? fishing business good? unidentified lunch wouldn't be complete without a delicious spicy salsa of garlic, tomato, onions and peppers. on the side, some deep fried little smelts. don't forget the beer and the cachaca and enjoy. unidentified yeah. that will work. looks like a big grouper. unidentified it's spicy. what do they drink, beer or cachaca? unidentified both. (laughter) unidentified still working? unidentified they use a line or net? unidentified a line. unidentified they don't cut the hands? unidentified fishing anywhere is hard and the way these guys do it, particularly hard. mostly hand lines from small boats. just look at these hands. ok. (laughter) you're a hard man. literally. unidentified yeah, that's what i want, right here. oh, yeah. jackpot. that's -- you'll pardon the expression, some good head. unidentified it's awesome. unidentified (speaking foreign language) unidentified looking good. take him to slow him right on the (inaudible). good piece of fish. beautiful. in rio, if you're anything less than perfectly cut, you feel terrible going to the beach. you never want to go to the beach. here, you can frolic in a speedo and feel pretty good about myself. let it all hang out here. unidentified caipirinha? unidentified ah, the caipirinha man. this indispensable icon of brazilian beach culture is known to start with fresh lime, muddle and mash with more lime juice, sugar, ice, the magic ingredient, cachaca. that's basically the distilled liquor of the sugar cane. shaken, not stirred, and you've got yourself one of the world's truly great cocktails, the utility beverage good for any time of day or any social occasion. very satisfying. (inaudible) toasted cheese things here, awesome. (speaking foreign language) unidentified if there's anything better than cheese, it's semi-melted cheese. and what's the best part of french onion soup? it's the little burned bits of cheese around the edge. oh, yeah. just as good as it looks. when millions of africans were taken by force to brazil, the traditions, the musical roots they had, instruments they played, their gods and their food came with them. in the days of slavery, you would hide that stuff, whether it was your religion or your self-defense skills. so, tell me about capoeira. unidentified no hats, right? both feet and head (ph)? why no hands? unidentified where did that come from and why do you think that became... unidentified in a recent study observing the comparative destructive power between kicks from various martial arts, of karate, muay thai and taekwondo, it was capoeira that packed the most ferocious impact. the colonial masters knew this and made it illegal for much of brazil's history. today, maestros like chanja (ph) and (inaudible) teach capoeira in classrooms and on stages. originally it was a male- dominated activity. when did that change? unidentified what was it like in the beginning, the very first women who did it? unidentified right. unidentified afro brazilian cuisine is the result of many, many years of cooks experimenting with african and portuguese dishes combined with local ingredients like seafood, chillies, coconut milk. this is angelica's house. open one day a week as a restaurant serving her unique style of bahian dishes. beautiful. wow. look at that. unidentified how has being a master of capoeira, how has that changed the rest of your life? unidentified it was purely african in the beginning, and now it's afro- brazilian form, is that correct? unidentified right. they're singing. a lot of singing, and it's important. unidentified all the things that we look at as brazilian from outside looking in, the cuisine, samba, all of these things are very african in origin. if you, say, found yourself in brazil and had a chance to hire a boat, head for the beach with a bunch of new friends, bring along a skilled mixologist, expertly trained in the fine arts of caipirinha making, why wouldn't you? charge across the water, headed for a nice, quiet island, order up some sun to come out from behind dark clouds right about now. sometimes cliches are cliches for a reason. because they're good ideas to start with, which is why people keep looking for them and doing them over and over. in a perfect world upon reaching said enchanted island, you jump into the warm atlantic waters, and if you could, you would have a classic soundtrack to this adventure, like samba, for instance. splash around for a while, maybe enjoy a nice cold beer or two. you truly have not taken a beach until a man has set up the caipirinha station. then you know the lz is secure. i love nature and caipirinha. oh what's going on here? caipirinha. please. sweet. this alone is an argument for the greatness of this country. and what goes great with caipirinha is on the beach? how about some barbecue? (inaudible) would show here by the way. someone take it. please, (inaudible) don't eat me. look in your heart. don't eat me. oh, no. not my head. to complete the picture, make a large fish. maybe some crab. you know, anytime you get your chinese, your brazilians and your italians all agreeing on something, it's pretty clear it's a really good idea. everybody agrees that this complicated looking creature with all those troublesome shells is worth the work. so, you tear off the little limbs. we'll get to you a little later, my friends. rip out the tail. these are the lungs you don't want them. now, you've got all this nice fat in there. oh, yeah. now, we're getting to the claw. look at that. let's poke him out of there. oh, yeah. this should do that that little melon of goodness. like a celestial nibble. when people started demanding boneless stuff like chicken without a bone or crab meat without the actual crab, or lazy lobster, that was the beginning of the erosion of our society as we know it. if you're not willing to work for a payoff like this, how do you expect us to, like, fight al qaeda if you can't suck the meat out of a crab? character builder, and delicious. and if your perfect day really did happen, you would probably let yourself be swept away. by liquor and good food and gin clear water, all around you, horny brazilians, casually fondle each other, get all dozy and fall asleep. misery is what it is. yes, of course. snails in an almond sauce. about as traditional and as delicious as it gets. that's a plate full of perfect (inaudible). that's right. tapas come from here. and this is still one of the few places in spain where they're free. right. no rush. i'm glad i'm spending some time here. red wine ordered. tripes to follow. tender, spicy, delicious tripe. not too long ago, before zack basically defected to spain, he met fuen. the next thing you know, he's living here. part of an extended andalucian family. eat in the hand, drink in the wine, living the life of the spanish dandy. in freaking granada, no less. classically, culturally speaking, do you want a sensitive, nice, caring thoughtful guy? unidentified from what? feral hippies? (laughter) unidentified i would love to do the vows of your wedding. do you, zach zambodin. swear to protect fuen sanchez from any attacks by feral cave-dwelling hippies? who might attempt her to sell her jewelry or other things of little value. (laughter) unidentified i figure now that zach is marrying into a spanish family, i can piggyback along, for this. suck up the lure of the magic, live a little bit of what has often been my dream, too. what are you saying now? you're going to be living up in a cave if you keep talking like this. (laughter) more wine. to see spain, to see it straight, to understand it at all, you should probably peek, if only through spread fingers, at that most spanish of traditions. bullfighting. meet el fandi, one of spain's most dashing and respected bullfighters. he's invited me to la marquesas ranch, a private bull ring where he likes to practice. alejandro, and if the calf is not brave, stew. along with me for the day, fuen's brother alejandro, who, like many spaniards, consider bullfighting an art. today a little practice first. and don't worry, this guy is too young to fight. why the cape and not the man? so that's important? you don't want to be moving -- this guy clearly has spirit. right away he tries to take a poke at zach's femoral artery. promising. i don't think so. yes? ok. no one likes to look like a pussy on tv, so when el fandi jokingly suggest i join him in the ring to wave a pink cape at an aggressive young bull, who just moments ago charged my cameraman, i said what any idiot would say -- si. it all starts well enough. hey, this is fun. this is easy. until i get a horn hooked right up next to my nutsack. then it's not so fun. thanks, guys. this youngster shall live, perhaps to gore a future tv host with his mighty horns. now this, this is what a real bull looks like. this is a whole different thing. five hundred freaking kilos of aggressive charging four-legged killdozer aiming at your meat and two legs. it's a lot of muscle. no matter how big, how strong, how scary, for this intrepid reporter who's seen many animals die for his dinner, this part is never easy. hey, it's time for stew. bull stew. our friend went to a better place after all. like a big pot where he's simmers slowly for hours with local herbs, onions and potatoes. nothing like a roaring fire in a spread of garico ham, homemade chorizo, spanish cheeses, bread, and good olive oil to take the sting out of a near genital mutilation. nice. no. (laughter) now he started at age 19? el fandi, spanish when you were a little boy growing up, you aspired to be a matador. the matadors were the original rock stars, the very ideal of masculinity, male beauty, and grace. that runs deep. like it or not, you should probably know this before dating a spanish guy. me, i'll happily see it into it tomorrow. but there is no denying the terrible beauty of a very complex tradition. it's not about winning. it's not about killing the bull. and nor is it about being just skillful. you have to look good doing it, too. are there really like really ugly ass bullfighters? (laughter) but a really out of shape -- i'm not (inaudible) with a muffin top. how do you call a muffin top? interesting. well, it was an education today, and a great meal. thank you. cheers. holy week or semana santa as it's called. observed all over southern spain with a seriousness and a fervor you might not see elsewhere. for seven days leading up to easter, nearly every city in andalucia gets taken over by ancient processions. to an outsider, it's an impenetrable montage of confusing, yet deeply evocative images. figures in dark hoods loom up from every direction. smoke pots of incense, candles, religious imagery, and the crowds. flashes of goya (inaudible), dimly remembered impressions of the inquisition. ok, watch this. these guys got to get their painstakingly crafted, massively sized and incredibly heavy and cumbersome float through the door, down the steps, and out into the street. pedro, pedro is another of fuen's brothers, the youngest, and when not working for an i.t. company in ireland, he does this. he carries crushingly heavy religious floats. they're calleed casteleros. and they devout months of training to this. that thing is huge. the virgin float, about 3,500 pounds total, and precise dimensions that have to make it through the door just so. the bearers have to kneel. crawl along with it on their backs to get it through the door. and the main event. ready, set, up. let's face it. i like a procession and all, but who likes a bunch of guys in hoods coming in your general direction? i don't. frankly, it freaks me out. time for a drink, perhaps. this is tabernacle. as best i understand it an eastern jesus and mary-themed drinking establishment, where between drinks one can ponder the agony of christ, but with sausages. is it like this all year or just over easter? whole year. it's always like this. wow. now is this a week for quiet contemplation and worship or is this a party week or both? throughout the course of the week, over 40-odd processions will creep slowly through these streets. this is one of my favorite things. yes. gaze away disapprovingly all you like, jesus. i am happy now. overlooking granada, the hillside of sacramonte is riddled with caves, many of them older than anyone even remembers. spanish gypsies or gitanos have lived here in caves turned homes like this for hundreds of years. they call this a juerga, an informal, intimate and spontaneous performance. what jazz musicians might recognize as a jam session. unidentified alissia (ph) like just about in granada is an aficionado. our host, kuro (ph), is a poet, historian, and a patriarch of the gitano community here. an icon of the flamenco world. gitano. you see travelers, roma people are more embraced by the culture here than most other places in europe. unidentified you do them well. unidentified yes. unidentified they dig deep for their material here. it means something. they're telling you something about themselves. what's the word? duende. what is duende? i've heard it. unidentified is it an emotional state or a technical -- unidentified is unhappiness necessary for great art? unidentified very deep. you'd have to think about that. unidentified right. i may not have duende, but i have valentine's. unidentified i know that expression. wait a minute. nighttime in granada. and it's time to pursue that greatest of spanish traditions, tapas. you may think you know what a tapa is. like you did have small bites at some fusion hipster bar where they did a whole lot of little plates. yes, that ain't a tapa. so how often do you do this? really? this is latana, a little place run by (inaudible), jesus and louisa, brother and sister. one bartender, one cook, taking care of everything. unidentified so you're just paying for the wine. unidentified so if i were like a degenerate -- wino, i can still eat well? as long as i can afford my wine, i eat. unidentified let us put this theory into practice. with our first round of drinks comes this. unidentified yes. i could pretty much eat that all day long. that's right. tapas are free. it shouldn't work, but somehow it does. another drink, another tapa. tomatoes, olive oil, bread. unidentified so i just -- all i've got to do is keep drinking and i'd be eating like this? really? but that's not included with my -- unidentified use that to get hungry. unidentified it's all a scam. little couple of little nibbles, the next thing you know, you're ordering 200 grams of caviar. caviar ain't free, my friend. delicious, entirely sustainable spanish caviar from farm (inaudible). bread and tomato. some high test caviar. unidentified sorry, is there something wrong with that? not even married yet, it's nag, nag, nag. next wine. let's do it. ah, tapas. what a novel concept. there's even a verb for it. tapayar. meaning to take tapas. as in if we're going to tapayar some more, we're going to have to elbow past this crowd of catholics here. maybe we go around. with parades crisscrossing the city in every direction, the steady drumbeat warns that your route is about to be cut off entirely for the next 40 minutes. people take their processions very seriously here and aren't exactly accommodating to anyone who threatens to block the view. yes. finally, bar number two. oliver. this place is always packed. beer, please. and with it comes a delightful tapa of mussels steamed in butter and olive oil. right. one's glass of wine comes with fried eggplant and honey, which sounds to me like it boorish (inaudible). more wine accompanied by these delicious little clams. yes. and the main event. now we are talking. yes. these langosteens, however, are not tapas and consequently not free. but worth it at any price. that's so totally awesome. we did good work here. no, let's move on. as this death march of tapas continues, things start to get a little weird. yes. unidentified good. finally. a little empathy. i do like the increasingly meta-aspect of this show. i should really be live streaming. that would really be interesting. finally, bar gallardo. just making it before closing. now let's be honest, we've had a lot to eat and drink at this point. some restraint needs to be shown. dude, if you want to eat -- ok. fried fish. little ones. and cheese. but instead, three more beers, three more tapas. gees. little fried smelt and (inaudible), baby lamb chops. unidentified these are super good. i'm uncomfortable with the idea of something for nothing. it's $3 for a glass of wine in some different (inaudible). no, never. we will never have tapas culture in america. never. ever. so you're looking to change the entire day, from the minute you get up in the morning in america. not in the afternoon. are you out of your mind? yes, i want a golden unicorn that shits money. (laughter) both of those scenarios are equally likely. every storybook kingdom needs a castle. granada, it's got a good one. the alhambra. one of the most enchanted, inscrutable, maddeningly beautiful structures ever created by man. built on top of ninth century fortifications by the nasrid dynasty, then added to and added to as history unfolded through wars and tragedy and invasion and conquest. zach has gone -- well, let's call it what it is. a bit mad about the place. the details, and there are a lot of them, can obsess a man. plus he's a cinematographer, so you can understand once he starts to really look around how that might get a grip on a guy whose profession is the intricate play between light and darkness. why because (inaudible) depict the words of god? yes. when the nasrid dynasty lived here, it was a harmonious space where light, shade, water, the transit of the moon and the stars were harnessed and glorified. a plan. yes. this was a place for reflection. each element of design presumably intended to have effects both psychological and religious. how long did it take them to build this? that's why it takes so long for you to get the shot? in the builders' time, engineers, astronomies, mathematicians were like priests, magicians, possessors of divine knowledge of how the universe worked. did they want to contemplate nature or did they want to conquer it, control it? they saw mathematical patterns in the sky and on earth, the way water moved and rippled, the way things grew, the simple pine cone, a fern, a pomegranate, and they thought about the basic truths these things might represent. we will understand all things. how did nature unfold, pattern itself? could the basic designs of nature, even if divine, be replicated in this magnificent structure? trying to solve the root of god here. an hour's drive from granada, the mediterranean. unlike much of spain's coastline ruined by real estate, speculators and overdevelopment, the coast around here in (inaudible) is largely unspoiled. i'm on my way to a moraga, a tradition in these parts, best described as the local version of a beach barbecue. working the grill, chef juan andres morilla. he heads the highly regarded el claustro back in granada. we're joined by fellow chef, rafael luque, and some friends. you were killing us with some good-looking food here. some of that simple yet magical salmareho on toast. it's one of my favorite things. unidentified fried tuna. flavor packed like tuna prosciutto. unidentified hundred percent, extra virgin from granada. unidentified awesome. spain is a beautiful country. we're not even eating yet and it's good. oh, sweet. want mass. that is like the best thing in the world. unidentified this? yes. unidentified chocolate. those were happy pigs. lazy pigs. unidentified yes, the pigs and the bulls are very happy here. controlled, they're not. unidentified ok. enough with the work. let's eat. nice. awesome. great meal. great, great, great. really. this is the dream of all the world. the dream is to live in granada. you know, work in the morning, have a one-hour in the afternoon, at night go out and have that life. you know. go out and see your friends and eat tapa and drink red wine and be in a beautiful place. you know, to have this kind of music and this food and this kind of culture and to look out the window and to see spain. unidentified yes? unidentified yes. unidentified right. see. he did it right. he's marrying into a spanish family in granada. unidentified cheating, man. unidentified very smart. i know. i know. unidentified right. look, no one is going to dare dream of this because this is too much to dream for. this is extraordinary. but an ordinary life in spain looks pretty good to me. the new swinging zamboni lifestyle. rise early like everybody's home for easter. maria jose, zach's soon to be mother-in-law, and caloy, that's dad. plus alejandro and pedro, the soon-to-be brothers-in-law who you've already met. what this nice family doesn't realize is they aren't just gaining a son but also an annoying half drunk and extremely hungry uncle tony. and i know what happens here. hamon. sitting there ready to be carved. unidentified i think that's a completely reasonable policy. eventually the appropriate hour for lunch approaches. so not to embarrass you publicly, but maine is not exactly the mediterranean of america. let's put it that way. how is he adapting to the spanish lifestyle? i mean, let's face it, he's a mean -- unidentified really? unidentified it's interesting to see how you've made the transition. cheers. first off, this. bakalou salad. salt cod, egg, black olives, oranges, tomatoes dressed in olive oil. remember, this is holy week. maria jose is preparing recipes that go back through the family so far that nobody knows exactly where they even came from. migas, another iconic dish of analucia. informally referred to as the shepherd's lunch as the story goes. born as a way to use old, hard bread and combine all the week's leftovers. i'm told that every household in spain has a variation. what changes is what you put on it. today it's sardines, cod, chorizo, melon, and peppers. man, that's a lot of good stuff in one bowl. unidentified so how often do you eat this well? every lunch in your life. big. that sort of begs the question now. while i'm busy hating you for your life, how often do you getting a drunk a day? when my time comes, i pretty much want to die at a table like this. good work, zamboni. good work. so, zach, happy with the show? dude, i think i'm setting a pretty low bar. i'm going to tell you this relaxed lifestyle, you know, lounging around eating and drinking. and no nap is long enough for me. life is good. i envy you, zach zamboni. and we're out. nice end. i'm in peru with this guy, eric ripert. eric ripert, chef, le that's funny. chef of the world famous restaurant le bernardin in new york. to look at where chocolate comes from, particularly our chocolate, the very expensive limited run designer chocolate bar business that eric got me into last year. so that's why we're in peru. but before we get all indiana jones, we're spending some time in lima, as we like the capital city just fine. and we have both of us, from previous trips, friends here. lima is the cultural hub and culinary capital of a country that has exploded in the last decade with scores of world class chefs, cooks, and restaurants. it has long been considered to be one of the best food scenes in all of south america. that was good. one of our friends here is chef restaurateur coque ossio. he's one of the best, most successful chefs in the country. his family is something of a beloved culinary dynasty in peru and a small fishing village about an hour south of lima is where they spend their weekends. coque's mom, marisa guiulfo, is like peru's julia childs and james beard rolled into one. thank you for having us. a caterer, cookbook author, beloved icon of peruvian gastronomy. yes, i'm going in. to say one is fortunate to enjoy her hospitality would be an understatement. warm, generous, welcoming beyond belief. marisa guiulfo, coque ossio's yes. coque ossio, chef do you nap before lunch or after? sounds like paradise. wow. look at this. every weekend, marisa opens the house to an ever changing mob of friends, visitors, drop-ins and family. unidentified they do not skimp on the food. delicious, delicious things pour out of the kitchen, a torrent, a deluge of traditional peruvian favorites. house (inaudible) is like a tureen of crab meat, eggs, avocado and mashed yellow potatoes. ok. beautiful. basically raw king fish fillets dressed with aji amarillo and lime juice. perfect. fresh scallops and lemon juice, garlic and aji (inaudible). drum fish, braised in (inaudible), a corn based beer. unidentified and stuffed riccotti peppers filled with ground beef and raisins, served with cheese. yes. wow. we are lucky. and that's just the beginning. there's so much more food there's no way we can show it all much less describe it. it's incredible, overwhelming, invariably fresh and delicious and thrillingly different than what i'm used to. i could frankly get out of the chocolate business right now, put up a pup tent on marisa's porch and pretty much dig in for the duration. this is living. yes. i want to be her next-door neighbor. so has peruvian cuisine always been this diverse and this delicious and we're just discovering it or has it changed over the last 15 years? there's so many products in peru that are unfamiliar to people in the states. when you eat this food it's not like well, this is something like -- no, it's not really -- it's not kind of like anything. it's really awesome. what do you do when you're homesick for peruvian food and you're traveling? there's really -- i hate to say good-bye to this but it is what it is. things to do and places to go. wild and apparently extremely rare cacao trees to visit. incredible meal. so happy. all i can say if that people are anywhere near this nice on the rest of this trip, it's going to be ok. lima, city of kings, home to a third of peru's people. locals escape by hanging out at the beach. why not? when you can maybe get a tattoo while you're at it. is that sanitary? you've been here before. i take eric's suggestion and we head over to see chef javier wong, the uniquely nonconformist seafood specialist, famous for his incredible and uncompromising food and his flaming wok. if peru has a national dish, it's probably ceviche. the freshest fish only needs the right cut, a little citrus and no heat. what's the most common thing that people do wrong? right. right. the whole place is served whatever menu he's doing that day, same for everybody. and today, the flounder he got from the market is particularly nice, so that's what we're getting. generally thicker pieces to stand up to the spices acids. first up an octopus and flounder ceviche. it is good. have you ever been spanked in your life and enjoyed it? yes, me neither. i don't like pain. brutalized with a pepper. i like. (inaudible), a flounder dressed with pecans, lime, aji limo and sesame oil, which clearly eric likes. really? so you're not like foraging in the cat skills for your inspiration? superb. chinese and japanese immigrants came to peru in great numbers in the 19th and 20th centuries as contract laborers and farmers, and their influence is felt here, particularly in the food, to a greater degree than anywhere else on the continent. it's that influence and the ingredients of amazonia and andes that really distinguishes the food here as something special. wow. what is this? tofu? this is a very (inaudible) combination, i mean, is that pineapple? where did that come from? that's not traditional. right. dude, his name is wong. i mean, unless he's a retired porn star -- this shouldn't be good but it is. working up a sweat on that one. might have a couple of more beers after this. this goes sour and then have a nice nap, midday nap. (commercial break) one more day in lima, the chance to delve a bit further into the cuisine before things get a little more old school. unidentified culantro? it would be wrong to not point out that peru, along with brazil, is at the forefront of a movement celebrating the incredible and unique larder of ingredients from the andes and the amazon. flavors you find no place else on earth. whole different flavor spectrum, right? all new. it's almost like you need a new section of your tongue. that looks good. i like the food. i've enjoyed these cocktails, too. cashew (inaudible). we'll be fine. oh, whoa. and the flavor from the leaf, too. or poisonous. yes. these fish are unbelievable. they get up to like 600 pounds and they're swimming in water no deeper than a rice paddy. giant. they're like dinosaur fish. everyone has been saying for years that peru is going to be the next big thing as far as restaurants and -- yes. totally. you're not loving that, are you? imagine, you took a lot of acid and then you ate that whole bowl of ants and then you go home and you experience violent diarrhea, and like you're tripping, it's like so now that we've confirmed what we already knew, that peru's food is unequivocally awesome, it seems proper that we take a trip back in time to meet the forebearers of this country's rich cultural legacy. the larco herrera museum in lima has a massive collection of pre- colombian artifacts. and looking at them, you get an idea of what these ancient peoples were like, how they lived. wow. i mean, this is like the real stuff. gold necklaces. you see where the spanish just freaked out when they came here, turned into like maniacal greed heads. but history does not have to be boring. it can be sexy. i don't know whether you knew this, but i have an aficionado of early erotica of pre-colombian and post-colombian heiress, you know, like pottery of people doing it. turns out things could get pretty interesting back in the day. oh, yes. those guys can get crazy, get wild and apparently very kinky. the erotic gallery. wow. there you go. that's a conversation starter. i take eric to the pre-colombian boning section, actually the erotic pottery section. slip of the tongue. which sounds about as much fun as an all nude renaissance fair, but is actually pretty cool. nothing new under the sun that these pre-colombian horn dogs didn't think of first. i think we frown on that these days. (laughter) wow, they're doing it under a blanket. this must be after the spanish arrived to teach them shame. skeletons with boners. getting zombie old-fashioned. i wonder whether this was decorative or whether this was really porn. i bet this was right on the table. come on in, have a cup of tea. sit down. (laughter) here's some animal and animal action. it's pretty awesome. something about steamy, xxx, pre-colombian erotica always makes me hungry. luckily at night, lima comes alive with the smell and the familiar enticing sound of sizzling meat. it's time for delicious, screamingly hot, garlicky spicy flavor jack street meats. and as anybody who knows me is well aware i love me some street meats. really? why? well, the neighbors complain? our friend coque brought us to this place. to dona pochita, a street stall named for the lady who runs the joint. they specialize in one thing. anticuchos is (inaudible) you want for skewered meat. this stuff, they say, goes back all the way to the incas and was as immediately popular with the spanish conquistadors as it is today. that looks good. which is to say, i must have some. traditionally a mix of beef hearts and other animal hearts. right. marinated in garlic, cumin, and onion, maybe a little vinegar. oh, yes. grill that up and pile it high. these are not small portions. these people are giving me mountains of food. ok. rolling up. it does not get any better. voila. let's do it. man, that's awesome. beef heart. yes. that is some magic right there. that is seriously tasty. the beef heart or the chicken heart, the texture is so nice. all right. i'm maxed out. really delicious. excellent. the city of chiclayo lies about 400 miles northwest of lima. it's peru's fourth largest city with over half a million people living there. it's our next stop, the staging area for our trip to the mountains to find our cacao. chocolate. i mean, we know we like the stuff. but how is it made? where does it come from? columbus was the first european to encounter cacao beans on a mayan trading canoe off the coast of honduras. he's said to have grabbed both crew and cargo and brought them back to spain. a few decades later a spanish conquistador hernando cortez came across aztecs using the sacred beans of a drink. it was considered the drink of the gods. like most expensive delicious things from abroad, the largely inbred and frequently syphilitic european royalty did their best to keep up what's was fast becoming a craze for hot chocolate to themselves. but it soon found its way to america. and in 1765, the first chocolate factory opened in new england. chiclayo's main market is a massive one-stop shop for all things chocolate as well as just about everything else under the sun. oh, you have your animal skulls. that's tempting. haircut? wow. those are the raw beans? toasted? grinds it? bitter. no. ripert is -- how shall i put it? well, let's just say he's got more of a spiritual side than me. ok. so he's got us shopping for what i guess you'd call shamanic supplies. which place do we go into? i like the lady with the sunglasses. yes. medical medicinal herbs with supposed magical properties. and stuff for this shaman dude to bless us and our cacao crop. unidentified smells like hippie. good? our journey continues by road as we leave chiclayo and head east towards the andes. unidentified yes. but before we get too deep into the mountains, we're stopping off to meet our shaman. ok. we wanted a blessing for our cacao harvest. we got this. my aura is now cleaner than gwyneth paltrow's colon after a three- month's juice cleanse. to a successful harvest. but we're not done. we have to transport this stuff to our trees and finish the job ourselves. yes. listen, i'm not disbelieve you. i have an open mind. eric and i are heading to the maranon canyon, eight hours by car from chiclayo, well into the andean highlands. on the way, we stop for lunch and meet up with this guy. chris curtin, master chocolatier and our business partner in this knuckle-headed adventure. one of life's great joys is eating in a peruvian market. chris curtin, basically a hen soup. that's good. where in the world does chocolate come from? there was this stuff, the special chocolate. which pretty much what we're here to look at. where it comes from, what's involved. eric ate some of chris's chocolate, heard about these wild cacao trees he was sourcing from and in peru and promptly got me involved in this designer chocolate bar business. i'm a rather famous guy that really -- i never really cared about desserts. you on the other hand, you are -- you eat chocolate every day? and so here we are, three men and a chocolate bar. good thing for the world or exploitive opportunism, yet to be determined. what do i, after all, know about chocolate? next, the freaking nut. like oliver twist. yes. we used to eat like in the orphanage. the maranon canyon. we're headed to meet some of the farmers that supply the beans that make our chocolate and get me an education in all things cacao. the roads up into these mountains can be tricky, so we've got to take care of the local vigilante dudes who run a roadblock here outside of town. it looks like a shakedown but they're a welcome sight. this hill, where cars have to slow down, was where all sorts of highway men and miscreants used to waylay travelers like us. so these guys stepped in to take care of business. wow, that was a big shotgun. that will -- that will shoot through an engine block. actually, i don't really know but i'm assuming. at this time of year, there's also the rain and mud, which can mean flooded streets and streams that cut right across the roads. and there's this, the river. in the best of circumstances, a fairly adventurous way to get your vehicles across, a long line across a fast moving current, ferry propelled only by the flow of water. but today, the river is too high and the current too fast. river running a little high. it's these smaller boats or nothing. when dealing with complex transportation issues, the best thing to do is pull up with a cold beer and let somebody else figure it out. to my crew, i say good luck. we're headed for what looks like a bar on the other side. punta cervesa, por favor. and let me tell you, it's quite a ride. you got to go down and then up, just right. we make it to the other side reasonably dry. beer? the maranon canyon is home to a wide range of species including and most interesting to us a strain of cacao previously thought to be almost extinct. a few years ago the valley's cacao trees were genetically tested at a usda lab and proven to have identical dna to one of the rarest forms of cacao in the world, this stuff. the real deal. pure national. don fortunato is our cacao connection, a farmer whose family has been working these mountains for over 40 years. really cookie looking pods come right off the trunk of the tree. this sort of look like somebody, you know, glued them to the side of a tree. this is a once a year crop? so where does chocolate come from? (laughter) the bean. ok. here's where chocolate comes from. the trees produce pods. you split open the pods and take out the beans. the buyer sundries the beans, then roasts them. after roasting, the beans are extracted from their shells and ground up, producing chocolate liqueur. mix this concentrate with milk, sugar, cocoa butter and you get what we call commercial chocolate. now our chocolate bar sells for a nosebleed price that's high by even premium chocolate standards. so where does the money go? and most importantly to me and eric, are we doing a good thing? here's how it breaks down. the raw cacao costs one chunk. labor, the inner sleeve, this much. design, box, packaging, this much. various sundry equipment and miscellaneous, another small chunk. chris, me and eric each get a slice out of every bar. that leaves this much, which the retailer takes. chef bleeding heart hippie here has already convinced me to give whatever meager profits we make off our first bar to a local charity. so what's unusual about these pods? these beans? thought not around for a while? now about 40 percent of the beans from these trees have got white cacao beans mixed in. the rest are purplish in color. but we've heard of an ultra rare group of trees elsewhere further up the mountains that produce pods with 100 percent all white pure beans and that's something me and eric are very interested in down the road. but for now, don fortunato's daughter has prepared us a traditional peruvian mountain meal. kuinas are rice dumplings with boiled egg, chicken and achuete inside. and not surprisingly some cuy or guinea pig of which there seems to be many around for the taking. this preparation served with a cacao sauce. that's good. all of this food is delicious. so chocolate, (inaudible) chunk and you say a luxury food item. right? this is an area that's abundant with coffee, chocolate, fruit. how's life for the locals? right. i'm in the maranon canyon in peru with my partner in chocolate bars, chef eric ripert. eric and i are intrigued by these ultra rare, all white beans we heard from don fortunato. so we set up a meeting with another farmer, don edilberto elsewhere in the valley. now we thought it would be a nice gesture given all high test culinary talent between us to make him and his family dinner in return for his hospitality. what are you thinking? squabs. butterfly marinade, grill? with a nice sausages. which would be nice to throw in with stew. chicken, onion, maybe some peppers, a little bit of spice. so we're kind of moving into these spanish or what's it called? sarsuela. but -- (crosstalk) that sounds like a plan. yes. successful. don't be a downer, man. i'm optimistic. what was depicted as a short walk up a slight incline turns out to be an epic hump up one hill after another. when you slump to the ground and urinate all over myself, that will probably be a tip that i probably want to stop. another reason i hate the swiss mountains. eric, who grew up in the pyrenees, is up the slopes like a gazelle. me, i feel every year of my misspent life with every step. oh, geez. unidentified are we there? unidentified i wish i could hear you over the sound of my exploding capillaries. by the time we get near the fabled trees, i'm toast. gasping for air, waiting to puke from the altitude and the exertion. so, tell us again, what's unique about these trees? so these are the only known all-white 100 pure. ok. and why is that good? a good flavor profile? i assume because i've humped up a here -- excuse me. oh, nice catch. remember the shaman? well, we still have stuff to do with that package you gave us. we do, presumably, want a good cop. better get right with the spirit world. oh, geez. shaman juice thrown around, the purified soil and there you go, chocolate magnates. well, good luck, dude, to a good harvest. the trip downhill unsurprisingly is a lot easier on me. time for me and chef ripert to get cooking. back to basics, wood fire, ingredients from the morning market. in this old school recycling system. here, little fella. notice how i neatly maneuvered you into the chef job? eric's mashed potato secret, around 50 percent butter. the glory that is france. i think they call it gout. ok. let's do it. some say. yes. right. afterwards don edilberto makes a traditional unsweetened hot chocolate preparation, ground cacao anybodies, no sweetener, no milk, no sweeteners, no nothing, just like the ancient kings liked it. unidentified gracias. the real deal. before chocolate hit europe. this is what the aztec kings would drink. you'll get yours eventually. unidentified that's good salud. gentlemen, to education. so did we do the right thing? is it all right for two new yorkers to make money, however much, or however little, off the work of struggling farmers in a faraway lane? fortunato, edilberto, chris, everybody down the line, all the way to the families who pick the pods off the trees, seem pretty happy to be doing what they are doing, but do i want to be in the chocolate business? that's something i'm going to have to figure out. but for now one last thing needs to be done to fulfill our shamanic obligations. a bridge, a bundle of eucalyptus leaves. a badly working lighter got to get right. we need to burn this stuff and pass it around our bodies three time. oh, too moist. oh, you got it, man. unidentified that's smoking. i'm going to get it. hold on. now i've got it. let's do it. over. get him in the coffee business. miami, it's a big place. bigger and more multifaceted than it's given credit for. unidentified we tend over the years to focus on miami's -- how shall i put this -- party zone. (music) it's the kind of place we say, "that could never be me," and then it is. (music) it's a temptation that's almost irresistible, the seductions of flash, of palm trees, balmy nights, deco architecture, the manufactured dreams of many television shows made real. but across the causeway a few miles down the way there are other worlds, older ones. i think it's safe to say better ones. (music) way out west, 20 miles from the airport, tucked in yet another strip mall, is islas canarias. and you go there because, well, you need coffee, and because cuba, respect, and because michelle bernstein is there. (on what's beyond here? ah, body disposal? well, you have the waiters in the little bolero jacket-type things or a bow tie. it is basically like the coffee version, the caffeine version of a one-hitter. you're basically, so i'd have one of those. at the next place, i'd have another. and i increasingly get jangling as i head towards work or whatever my final destination. that's good. so this is a nonjudgmental land, miami? it's good coffee. really? it pisses me off. you know people try to improve on this. good. a lot of thought is given to the structure of the sandwich. yeah. this is the perfect breakfast, right? i don't care about sweet things. if i have to give up one course of the meal, it's the dessert. you know how it's -- (crosstalk) cheese over dessert any day. i know. you look good. you look good. if i look that good when i'm 60, i'll be happy. matt klein came to miami in 1945 from new york's lower east side by way of the battle of normandy. by the fall of 1942, more than 78,000 troops were living in more than 300 hotels in miami and miami beach. (on yeah. it makes sense, too. i love this place. i mean i love it. it's my favorite bar in miami. to many more. (commercial break) (music) bourdain right. so where's the money now? how's business in general in miami and where is that business coming from? if it is money looted from another country, do we care? trickle down. he seems to like you much better than me. (laughter) really? -- a deejay. what makes the miami sound different from the detroit sound, the philadelphia sound, the new york sound, whatever? once called 77 elvis pancakes? chocolate chip pancakes, bourbon maple syrup, banana compote and peanut butter. even if you're not the king, you'll want to die on the toilet like he did after this carbo load. (on no, look, i understand people deeply love them and i do like waffles and i do like fried chicken. put them on separate plates and i'm ok. (laughter) shrimp and grits, a southern classic made with florida shrimp, virginia ham, and south carolina stone-ground grits. (on "aqualung," jethro tull, i whipped into a murderous rage right away. even now. i'm angry that that band ever existed. i hate that whole englishy, old, bar minstrelly, stand-on-one-leg mother (expletive deleted). i hate that (expletive deleted). (laughter) you never know when you play music, were they molested by a rodeo clown to that song. (crosstalk) and jethro tull is my version of that. (laughter) (commercial break) these days, liberty city is mostly ignored by developers, but back in the day, it was the epicenter of the black community. a lot has happened since then. (singing) unidentified your parents were jamaican and bahamian? south american and -- very, very different. how has that mix, how has that impacted the music? i've seen this on television. (laughter) among your other accomplishments, you ran for office? about 70 percent residents of miami speak spanish at home? enormous african-american and afro-caribbean community. how come they keep electing conservative white guys? it's the opposite of get-out-the-vote program, which is don't bother to vote. if you were selling miami to somebody, what's the best thing about miami? how do you handle the cold if you have to tour or something in detroit or chicago or something? this is really good. i've seen janis joplin. i've seen david bowie. diamond dogs. i've seen colleen dewhurst and jason robards in the "moon for the misbegotten," directed by jose quintero on broadway. considered one of the greatest productions ever in -- this was the greatest show i've ever seen in my life. it had it all. it was the greatest show in the history of entertainment. i don't understand it. i'm completely confused. there's like 100 people working on that show. millions of dollars worth of, like, robots and technology. unidentified how do they make money? unidentified the yakuza. the fraternal organization prominent in the entertainment and financial services sector, as they say, who is said to supervise things here in shinjuku. principally, your arcades, your gambling, pachinko, adult entertainment, your porn shops and sex clubs, along with other ancillary services. but how much actual boning is going on in the sex district? generally speaking, it's more a field of dreams than the actual act of sex. hostess cafes, for instance, where a lonely overworked salary man can find the attention of cute seemingly adoring girls who find their every uttering fascinating. so now hostess bar is -- i just want somebody to tell me i'm fantastic. oh, you're so interesting. your job is interesting. you are a very sexy man. i don't care what your wife says. i think you're really interesting? unidentified penetration, maybe by a q-tip in the ear, followed by a personal love spell in this case to make your tea taste better. what is this place? what's happening here? unidentified are these boys? unidentified wait a minute. you've got, like, a million guys wandering around here, looking to get -- and they've got a whole bunch of bored middle-aged housewives coming in here since... unidentified why don't they go to the same club and somebody will actually have sex? unidentified that's the saddest thing i've ever heard. unidentified no, that's heartbreaking, dude. is the business in shinjuku dreams? unidentified really? all of this. i mean, it is a very enticing situation. no. unidentified god, whatever. golden gai, one of my favorite place to drink in tokyo. hundreds of microsized bars, each different from the other with their own micro crowd. i love it here. i've never been here. maybe i have. i don't know. this place is one of maso's (ph) favorites, bar albatross. he sips strong drinks, the definition of a hole in the wall. now, do people come from -- come here right from work, drink all night and then go back to work? unidentified salary man? would a salary man bring his wife here? so look, in america, the bartender is like a priest. unidentified i can tell them all of my problems. and i could behave very badly and he will never talk, ever. this is the contract. unidentified absolute confidentiality. do i have that kind of arrangement here now? so i have a supplied guarantee of total security? unidentified so he knew with some dinosaur-riding ho in a bikini? unidentified it would be -- no, no, you don't have to ask. oh, man. this is a great country. every chef i know wants to die here. unidentified because the food is awesome. and because we -- i think all of us understand that we don't understand anything about japan. and i totally don't understand the porn here. why is it ok -- you can't (inaudible) somebody with a penis but you (inaudible) with an octopus tentacle? (commercial break) in japan, there's a very old, very deep and very rich tradition of martial arts. many styles, many schools. the yonekura gym, toshima ward focuses on boxing. and this man, kenji yonekura, is a legend, having trained generations of fighters using a simple and effective philosophy that has some real application to our story. there it is, pasted on the wall behind the ring. one, speed. two, timing. three, distance. the same idea applies to the convention-shunning sushi techniques of new york city legend naomichi yasuda. until recently, the chef partner of one of the very best, if not the best sushi restaurant in new york. the eponymous sushi yasuda. a short while ago, under very mysterious and completely misreported circumstances, he left the manhattan restaurant which still bears his name. and at age 52 moved to tokyo to start all over again. i was determined to track him down and see what the hell he was doing. these days, this great man is running a 14-seat sushi bar in the minatu district of tokyo. his wife naomi is his only helper. naomichi yasuda, why did you do such a hard thing? yasuda is a friend and my master in the sense that he's taught me pretty much everything i know about sushi over the years. he's a very, very interesting and complex man who constantly surprises. it's very french of you. so many things separate yasuda-san from other japanese sushi masters. the most noticeable is his hands. they're huge. look at the knuckles. enormous from years of pounding cement walls during repeated daily practice in kyokushin karate. he first trained and competed in tokyo. when he came to new york, he continued to practice. often in underground, bare-knuckle matches, where you fight until someone gets beaten to the ground. this style, yasuda practiced was about beating your opponent as quickly and as aggressively as possible. speed. every second is important. the rice is getting cold, the seaweed is getting soggy, fish, less than perfect temperature. look at his posture. a fighter's stance. distance, knowing the perfect spot to be. moving in and out as needed. never out of position. timing. reacting to his customer's pace of eating, their ever-changing desires, always ready for the next move. most people who don't understand sushi. we go to a sushi bar and say, "oh, i had the best sushi last night. the fish was so fresh. it was right out of the ocean." yasuda's menu changes constantly with what he finds in the market. and like thousands of other sushi chefs, he heads every day to tsukiji, tokyo's central fish market, where nearly 3,000 tons of the world's best seafood arrives every day. but unlike most others at his level who arrive at which is more important, the rice or the fish? or what percentage? rice. more important? wow. yasuda, he still trains, though his fighting days are over. he says he was tired of hurting people. he brings me to kamio dojo in asakusa, to try and show me how his sushi technique and kyokushin karate are one in the same. yuki kamio, the master. nice. now, in an official tournament, two-minute rounds. and the result you are looking for is points? it's underground. you can just work on their legs for five, seven minutes to slow them down. then you go in. right. perfect. (commercial break) those who buy into the notion of japanese women is shy, giggling, subservient victims of convention would be confused by tomika. people, as everywhere, if you look deeper, can surprise you. her day job is doing this. and i gather from what she tells me that she gets plenty of work. the taito ward of tokyo, another complicated warren of businesses layer upon later where excellent ezekias (ph) are well represented. places where a hardworking salary man could have a beer and some sake, or many beers and many sakes. a lot. this is shibari. translation, to bind. it makes things more confusing for those looking for a concise takeaway of comfortable reaction to what sure as hell looks pretty disturbing. tomika, who spends most of her time whipping, burning, and generally abusing men, enthusiastically reverses roles in her longtime relationship with hajime. it looks like a very delicate procedure. does it hurt or does it feel good? performance art, craft, fetish, or compulsion. it's an old and shockingly omnipresent feature of japanese popular fantasy culture. magazines, movies, even comic books. the intricate restraint of a willing victim, it's well, it's there. not far from the surface. what percentage of japanese men are interested in either tying up women or subjugating? all of them. well then the question is how many japanese men like to be tied up? so in your experience, all japanese men like to tie women up, but in your experience, all japanese men like to be tied up. who's more (inaudible) sexually, americans or japanese? a little late for me. (commercial break) in america, where i come from, we are told at a certain age to put aside childish things. the action figures, dolls, features of our imaginations, to arm ourselves with the brutal realities of the real world, real combat, real sex. in japan, increasing numbers of people don't. they continue to live a life inside four walls, inside their mind, the life we call the computer geek, the nerd, as avatars. there's a name for it, a whole subculture of what's called otaku. once a derisive term, now a proud identifier of the geek, one who has turned his back on the real world and finds satisfaction elsewhere. manga or comic books hold a different place in the cultural landscape here and address different needs. there's yaoi, for example, otherwise known as boy's love manga, extremely popular with teenage girls. stories change, but the core themes are sexually ambiguous boys getting very friendly with each other. what legions of young girls and soccer moms find compelling in the thousands of these titles, something of a mystery to outsiders looking in, but there they are. whole sections of manga book shops dedicated to basically one direction type boy band figures having sex with each other. yaoi isn't generally explicit, though it can be. some of the most popular manga are, however, lurid, over-the-top illustrated stories of incredible violence, rape, murder, and sexual fetishes. toshio maeda is a manga creator like few others, the father of what could only be described as tentacle porn. his 1986 manga "urotsukidoji," was about half-human, half-bestial space invaders in search of an evil supreme being. it contained unbelievably graphic, lurid, violent, and one would argue offensive images of sex acts involving not sexual organs, but other protuberances. it became a huge hit and has been imitated wildly both in other manga and other live action films. a whole genre of lurid, but extraordinarily well-drawn madness. notice, by the way, the distinguished owner and her complete lack of shock or offense at the graphic, frankly horrifying images of rape, violation and murder spread casually across the table for all to see. japanese manga, ones that everyone reads on the subway home even, well, they're different. the big breakthrough was you couldn't draw penises, you couldn't draw specifically orifices. you couldn't actually show humans penetrating each other. right. right. also demons. demons. that's fantastic. whether you meant to at the time, you absolutely changed the world of manga. you created an entire spectrum of pornography that didn't exist before. i mean, if you go to youtube now, there is tentacle manga. there are tentacle and demon manga. there is tentacle and demon anime. a lot. that looks good. for dinner, there's katsuo no tataki, fresh bonito seared quickly over flame, arranged in bite-sized pieces, garnished with daikon, fresh greens, sprouts and ponzu. toshio comes here often to the tomato nabe, commonly a favorite of sumo wrestlers as part of a weight gain diet. basically it's a hot pot of meat and vegetables. chicken, pork, beef, fish bowls keep getting fed into the pot. usually alongside much beer and rice. adding that much needed (inaudible) factor so important to sumo wrestlers and cable t.v. hosts. so appealing to the hidden desires of a manga-buying audience, men want filthier, dirtier, more violent? right. what do women want? generally speaking, what do women want in manga? but nobody's going to the fish market and asking for live octopus. probably not. the pop music scene in tokyo is not that different than ours. with an accent, though, on pretty boy bands, pop idols, teen stars. generic, industry-created crap, for the most part. like i said, not so different than us. picture an army of miley cyrus' or would that be miley cyrai (ph)? going against the grain are a few lone heroes like (inaudible). two self-released albums and no hint of a record deal. damn suits. what do they know? lead singer yu. sweet, shy, pop friendly, (inaudible) fair? no. so yes, so how big an audience in japan for thrash metal, death metal, hardcore? unidentified right. unidentified and the audiences, good audiences here? unidentified polite. really? unidentified really? you know, when i look at popular music, the stuff that's selling millions of records in america, it makes me angry, actually. unidentified yes, if i see nickelback, i want to kill myself. ok. i want to kill them, and then i want to kill myself. and then i want to kill everybody who listens to them. ok. what's so funny? it's true. i mean, who do you hate? what band do you hate? what -- a band that i would know. who's the worst band in the world? the worst popular band in the world? unidentified who? unidentified my chemical romans, yes. hate them. that's a good one. can you make a living? unidentified no. unidentified not at all? unidentified you all have jobs. so there's pressure... unidentified ... on you? unidentified right. unidentified the expectation, the pressure is ok, get a real job. unidentified put aside this record wall shit and get a real job. in a perfect world would you like to play rock and roll every night? would you like to play metal every night? unidentified can you? unidentified yeah, these guys look like lifers. (commercial break) tokyo may well be the most amazing food city in the world. with a nearly unimaginable variety of places stacked one on top of the other, tucked away on every level of densely packed city streets. well, we miss you, you know. i'll tell you something really terrible, every relationship i've ever had with a woman at some point very early on i bring them to yasuda in new york. and i would watch how they eat. if they talk too much, if they didn't understand how to eat sushi, if they did not eat the huni, we will never have a relationship. that's it, it's the end. they don't serve high end sushi here or elaborate (inaudible) inspired fare. it's almost like hipster tempura. this style of food is known as kushiage skewers of delicious things dipped in batter and fried. it's perfect. yasuda-san orders up shrimp and basil, lotus fruit, octopus, and pickled quail eggs. we also have to have their take on okonomiyaki, a type of egg batter pancake that can filled with many things. for us it's squid and brushed with worcestershire sauce. wow, that's awesome. okonomiyaki. yes, love this dish. you lived in new york, what, 14 years? eighteen years? 27 years in new york. that changes a person. you're a new yorker now? what was the hardest thing to get used to when you first came here? the culture. look i never get bored and i always learn new things in manhattan. but there's 15, 20 different manhattans in tokyo to me. i mean, if you shinjuku, shibuya (inaudible), from my perspective these are completely different cities. even building to building. pachinko got here, night club for men, nightclub for girls, nightclub for rock and rollers, hair salon. all up. 15 different businesses in one building? one building. i could spend the next five years just doing shows on this one building. what is weird? what is strange? what do those things even mean, anyway? sure a lot of what you've seen looks different from maybe the mainstream. it's certainly different from the way we like to portray ourselves, see ourselves, at least our daytime selves. but roughly 50 percent of all movies rented in american hotel rooms are adult films. the american porn industry catering to exactly the kind of dark urges we've been talking about but even nastier is a $12 billion a year industry that dwarves the hollywood product. our own obsessions arguably are at least as crazy, violent, and lurid as japan's. and we tend to actually carry out our violent fantasies more frequently. maybe with that fetishism, that attention to detail comes some kind of excellence in other fields. maybe there's a line from there to here. so who's crazy now? anthony bourdain, host let's do it, man. the sauce. i want to see how much he put in there. and the broth is wonderful. people are put on earth for various purposes, i was put on earth to do this. eat noodles right here. really? i would definitely bring a date to this, because if she doesn't like this, there's no hope of a relationship. if she said, "oh, i don't know, there's, like, blood. there's icky stuff in there," that would be a relationship ender to me. i mean, i'm not kidding. it's just -- i mean, this is as sophisticated and complex a bowl of food as any french restaurant. it really is the -- just the top of the mountain. how long has she been here? you live in a great country, man. any country that could produce this is a superpower, as far i'm concerned. i'm getting down to, like, the pepper residue at the bottom. how long does that broth have to simmer to get good? wow, really? i would have guessed, like, 14 hours. yum. happy. nice burny feeling on my lips, flop sweat, check. happy. so, we can pretty much cancel the rest of the show. i've achieved the -- my happy zone. it's really all downhill from here. (commercial break) bourdain good to see you. oh yes. unidentified my hair is white. i have the pictures. i looked completely different in 2000. unidentified ming? unidentified oh my god, he's going to college soon. wow. this is the island of mr. sang. unidentified hanoi. unidentified oh my god, look at that. we look cool. we totally look cool here. but does everybody fall in love with the country like i did? i came here, and it stole my heart. you know? unidentified mm. wow, that's great. dude, that's pretty spicy. perfect with beer. unidentified sweet, just like i remember. unidentified yes. a sentimental guy. unidentified good to see you again, my friend. (voice-over) it's been a long time since my old friend and i met. a hell of a lot of road with this guy. one of the great joys of life is riding a scooter through vietnam. to be part of this mysterious, thrilling, beautiful choreography. thousands upon thousands of people -- families, friends, lovers -- each an individual story glimpsed for a second or two in passing, sliding alongside, pouring like a torrent through the city. a flowing, gorgeous thing. as you ride, you not only see but overhear a hundred intimate moments in miniature. you smell wonderful, unnamed things cooking, issuing from store fronts and food stalls. the sounds of beeping, laughing. announcements from speakers, the putt-putt and roar of a million tiny engines. hue's place in history, long regarded as the heart of the imperial dynasty, changed forever during the vietnam war. in 1968, hue became the site of some of the most bitter fighting in the war. during the lunar new year, the tet holidays, when usually there was a cessation of hostilities, more than 100 cities all over south vietnam were attacked by the north vietnamese and v.c. hue quickly fell. you have seen these images. it was footage like this that turned, finally, a great part of the american public against the war. the u.s. marines fought house to house to retake the city. a vicious three-and- a-half-week-long battle. eventually, artillery and air support were called in. the city was saved. and of course, largely destroyed in the saving. the civilian population caught in the crossfire were equally devastated. the north vietnamese, to their enduring shame, had while controlling the city, rounded up anyone seen as a potential enemy and either disappeared them away to unknown prisons or killed them outright. most notoriously when they massacred almost 3,000 people, rolling them, many of them still alive into mass graves in and around hue. duc knows full well the horrors and heartbreak of that time. in his memoir, "where the ashes a lot of people died here. i mean, obviously i'm an outsider, but it just seems to me as a casual observer, you can pretty much survive anything. she also cooks, magnificently from a repertoire of imperial hue-era dishes numbering over 100. back in dynastic times, the emperors demanded the symbolic and health aspects of many of these dishes not to be overlooked. (on goi wei (ph) is a traditional dish that's seldom made these days because of the complexity and the time needed to do it right. a fish stock is made from kaban (ph), a fish from the perfume river. pineapples, onions, chilies, shallots, and coriander. a salad of quickly cooked prongs, rice noodles, ginger, red chili, garlic and galangao (ph). layer of rice noodle, banana flower, then the prongs, garnishes. the strained fish stock is brought to the table with the salad in separate bowls and combined just before eating. no, it's good. i love it. oh no, i like it. what i found when i first came to the this part of the world, vietnam in particular. my pallet changed. i needed an elevated level of chilies and heat. much of vietnamese cooking abides by principles of yin and yang. heat and cold. this one, a lobster dish with five spices, balances the coldness of the lobster with the heat of the spices. red onion, ginger, lemongrass and chilies are added to the boiling water to cook the lobster. once the lobster's cooked, it's presented in a bowl of lime leaves. and the stock is poured over it. whoa. that's beautiful. we're getting into this with our hands, i'm guessing. i like this. beautiful. voy tran spoils all of with us a succession of dishes. but the past, as it often does in a place like this, intrudes. unidentified know your enemy, they say. know who it is you're facing out there. who are they? why do they fight? what are they willing to endure in the furtherance of their cause? these, one would think, are simple questions, useful in any conflict. meet the enemy. okay. he was only an infant during our nine-year long war, but quio tan's (ph) experience should be instructive. unidentified male (translated on in 1965, the united states initiated a sustained bombing campaign called rolling thunder, hoping to destroy an elusive enemy in villages like this one. vinh moc (ph), which was less than 20 miles from forward u.s. marine fire bases just south of the dmz. this is where tan was born. as the target of frequent bombings, the village of vinh moc moved underground. up to 100 feet down into darkness. unidentified male (translated on the villagers carved over 5,000 feet of tunnels out of the earth, creating a complex that would house all 90 families of vinh moc. 13 entrances and exits leading from the inland to the beach. showing me through the labyrinth is con taq (ph). born in huawei during wartime, she has since moved to the dmz to work as a guide. how did they dispose of all of this earth and rock without revealing the tunnels? unidentified this was the maternity ward where tan was born. where did people sleep? unidentified how long did it take to build? unidentified 20 months of digging. unidentified by hand. unidentified right. unidentified while the bombing is going on, they're down here digging this out. unidentified male (translated on wow. how many children here? unidentified male (translated on how did they play? unidentified male (translated on so much of the time you were in total darkness? unidentified you don't even see -- you can't see your mother. unidentified wow. children played here. but people also emerged from these tunnels to kill or cripple americans. to shoot them, to plant bobby traps, and that's what they did. six years in darkness. and at the end of the war, the people of vinh moc emerged from that darkness. and what did they do? what was that like, after living in darkness for so long? what was it like to come out and be able to spend the rest of his life in the sun? unidentified thank you, wow, ready. unidentified looks kind of like a mackerel. good. unidentified yes. unidentified yes. last question, hypothetical, if the french or the japanese, or the americans, suddenly decided they wanted for some reason to come back, would he fight? unidentified male (translated on there are particular sounds that come with waking up in rice country. at tanzang (ph) lagoon however, early morning is the end of a workday. as fishermen who have been out on the water tie up close to shore and sell their catch in the early mist. i'm meeting up with lac (ph) for what she promised would be a very tasty afternoon snack. quan banolet (ph) is set back from a quiet lane in the outskirts of town. it's a neighborhood place specializing in this. ban bayo (ph), little pancake-like things made of rice flour, steamed in molds, and topped with crispy fried shallots and cassava paste and crumbled fried shrimp. so show me how you eat this. what do we do? unidentified right. i got it. just cut around the edge here. unidentified fold it over. oh, it just -- mm. this is great. unidentified waiting. unidentified oh, so you'd have a stack (inaudible). what are they eating in the banana leaf? can we have one of those two? unidentified oh, good, i don't want to leave anything out. oh, yeah, there's pan potluck (ph), made of cassava or tapioca with pork and more shrimp from the lagoon, wrapped like a tamale in banana leaf, then steamed. unidentified i'm watching you. let's get this right. unidentified in a past life? unidentified so this is shrimp. pick it up and dip. right? hmm. very nice. they're pretty too. look at that. unidentified you call this type of eating an-choi (ph). unidentified recreational eating. unidentified so it's not a main meal. it's for snacking. unidentified banramit (ph) is a delicious marriage of fried and glutinous sticky rice dumplings. it starts with frying the paste in cooking oil. then unpeeled shrimp are stuffed into dough. place the chewy part with the crunchy part and sprinkle with chopped, fried shrimp. oh, wow, that looks awesome. what is underneath? unidentified oh, okay. unidentified oh, that's great. nice and crispy and greasy. i love it. anybody would love this. it's just amazing. unidentified the soft and the crispy, crunchy. delicious. (commercial break) last ride, a few miles out of town, whip across the rice paddies. just getting from here to there, this part of the world, it's pure pleasure. i'm meeting my friends for a country lunch. what's the specialty at this restaurant? chicken baked in clay? unidentified another friend from the past, ha pham (ph), lin (ph), of course, lan (ph), and a new friend from huawei, tan (ph). a last meal, some goodbyes. unidentified really? unidentified it's very laid back. the food's great. it's pretty. there's a lot to see. it's a perfect place to go if you want to take your time. it's beautiful to me. food's coming. out here, there are a lot of dishes like this. fill a chicken with lemongrass, wrap it in banana leaves, then cover it with muddy clay from the nearby rice paddies. cook in the coals, or a pile of burning straw, if you like. unwrap carefully tableside. section with sheers. unidentified serve with a little lime and salt, maybe some chili sauce. squash, bitter melon and morning glory greens for veggies. that's good. some unexpected last words. unidentified thank you for having me. unidentified thank you. unidentified please. unidentified bravo. unidentified i'll come back to vietnam, always. cheers, everybody, and thank you, all of you, for all your help. unidentified this is who came out of the ground, out of the jungle, the darkness, when it was all over. and this is what they did. (begin videotape) anthony bourdain, cnn host right. unidentified at 14. you can't do that anymore, can you? unidentified the good old days. pate, sausages, it's an art that's revered here and widely enjoyed. few names garner more respect from aficionados of pig. unidentified in a relentlessly cold room, pork shoulder, belly and fat back are fed in batches through a vertical chopper. the sprinkling of seasoning and spices. removed in large balls of finely, but not too finely chopped leek. you do not want to get your hand caught in one of these things. then mixed to smooth perfection with a dough hook. unidentified spread out and layered for consistent seasoning, formed into shapes and smacked to remove air bubbles. unidentified into the sausage machine and piped into organic casings. trust me, it isn't easy. unidentified yes. unidentified yes? he knows he does really good work. he knows how good his stuff is. cheers. nice -- it's a beautiful day in lyon. unidentified see that red, white and blue around their necks? that means they made it through the brutally unreasonably rigorous competition that pits hundreds of top chefs against each other where only a handful survive. certified by the highest in the land as being at the very top of the top of their professions. mof challenges often include ultra old school classics not unlike the one we're making today. poulair au visse, thick slice of black truffle are slipped under the skin of a chicken from breast, the rolls royce of chickens. it's then tied, slipped inside a pig's bladder and steamed until tender. unidentified at times brutal world of the kitchen looks much of the time like a boys' club but where did they come from? if we track back a bit to where it all began for lyon and for many of the chefs whose names we now know and look up to, it all goes back to here. lamer brassie, the godmother, the original master. teacher, chef, force. two restaurants with three michelin stars. an achievement no one, male or female, had attained and for many years, lyon's most famous chef. her influence runs right through every kitchen that's come since and her graduates carry on her recipes and her traditions. this was one of hers, a signature. unidentified i do all the time, believe me. please hold up, please hold up. not here, people are looking. wait until you get in between cars. divine. unidentified even if i weren't a chicken, i would like to go like this. die surrounded by truffles and foie gras and fine wine. (end videotape) (commercial break) (begin videotape) bourdain right. the farmer's life was not for you. unidentified this is marie, head chef, cook, host and server for 320 hungry and very discriminating french schoolchildren ages 3 to 12. on the menu, prefix today, pumpkin soup, homemade cous-cous and a sauce supreme. (on these kids eat fast. look how fast this kid eats. turn your head, he'll dish your food right out of your plate. push up your tray just like in prison, move it along. move it along. unidentified ok. keep an eye on that one. all right. if you were to pick one iconic dish to represent, it would have to be the canel broche. not particularly fabulous river fish, pike, folded into a light dough until fluffy and airy, but still rich, adrift in a rich creamy, almost bisque-like sauce made with crayfish, creme fresh and brandy. unidentified don't be afraid. there are. so somewhere on the other side of town, there are a lot of women sitting around drinking wine, eating and complaining about the men. many have called maison trois gros the best restaurant in the world. in the '60s, the brothers, pierre and jao were early, important and fundamental innovators of what came to be known as nouvelle cuisine. behold, one of their breakout classics. one of the truly game-changing, timeless, most influential dishes in history. it seems now maybe a simple thing, but it absolutely turned the world upside down when it debuted on the menu in 1962. (on all right. unidentified because it's cooking all the way. perfect. it's a perfect dish. it's really one of the great ideas of the 20th century. fashionable. unidentified really? the fish is filled with a delicate lobster mousse and tarragon and wrapped carefully in pastry. notice the careful and tableside carving and service. unidentified the peasant classic. unidentified and then, this. as if the chef had been listening to my deepest, darkest secret yearnings, an almost completely disappeared, incredibly difficult preparation of wild hare. the animal is first slowly cooked, then coated by a sauce of its own minced heart, liver and lungs that has been thickened with its own blood. after more than six hours of preparation, the hare is served as the chef prefers, whole on the bone, the rich glorious sauce finished with truffles and chart chartreuse. absolutely the lost ark of the covenant. (on forever. i will never eat like this again in my life. chef, merci. the meal of my life. easy shot. is this the hunting lodge, the weekend getaway, hang out with the guys? unidentified that's happiness right there. i am a man of simple needs and i notice -- unidentified meeting daniel's dad, one seems to understand the roots of his perfectionism. his mom, dad, wife, katherine and danielle collaborate with some debate. on a super old school farmhouse classic. the sort of things good times, bad times, a family could make with stuff always readily available on the farm. check this out. it's a hollowed out pumpkin layered with toasted chunks of stale bread, nutmeg, grated cheese, mushrooms, fresh cream from the cows and the meat of the pumpkin. unidentified leftover grape solids usually used to be make liquor, today a different use. if we can get it out of here. unidentified we'll be using this delightfully funky stuff to flavor the steam that cooks the vegetables from inside the still. unidentified at dusk we settle for dinner. (on they all reflect the region hopefully. but in the best case, they're interdependent. they come from each other. in fact, who cooks in the great restaurants? farm boys basically. that's who always cooked. my deepest thanks to your mother and your father. thank you. unidentified this was the maharajah's bed. i mean, his chambers are present. unidentified the walls tell a story, many stories. unidentified for how many years, continuously? unidentified 300 years. right. unidentified training is rigid, and this is not just a sport, but a way of life. wrestlers live and train together and have strict rules of diet and personal conduct. no smoking, no drinking, no contact with women. so once you get past there, you can go straight into pakistan if you want? unidentified udah (ph) is working on a documentary about the india/pakistan border. unidentified no one wants to? unidentified really? that's a fairly decisive statement. so they put up the fence, but the fence is on the indian side. unidentified right, so beyond that fence, still indian farmland. unidentified so people who live over here can farm over there. unidentified how long does it take to get back and forth? unidentified how much farther can we go before they start to get worried? unidentified when india and pakistan were separated, the attempt was to try to draw a line across religious lines. unidentified to create a new country, basically. unidentified really. wow. unidentified well, it's a popular metaphor for india. pakistan is twins separated at birth. unidentified right. unidentified it is an ongoing struggle, an enduring cause of paranoia, visible all across the region. two nations with atomic arsenals who have shown, if nothing else, a terrifying willingness to use them. from the horrific 2006 train bombings, to the militant attacks in mumbai, the threat of terrorism along this border is a daily concern. (commercial break) kulcha, a perfect little flavor bomb of wheat dough pressed against the side of a very, very hot clay oven, slathered with butter and served with a spicy chickpea curry on the side. did i mention the butter? unidentified still maybe not fighters so much, but still eaters. unidentified but if you're -- you know, if you're going to have chicken it better be good. unidentified there's, like, a rotee (ph) with ground mutton or -- unidentified the movies and television in this country is fantastic. i don't even understand why -- what's going on. i mean, everybody dances and sings. i don't get it. (music playing) no, this is good. oh, yeah. wow. oh, yeah. mm, that's good. thank you. no, nothing, thank you. delicious. so good. (commercial break) (music) bourdain (voice i had pretty much forgotten about my hunger until the whistle stopped at barog. (on fond memories of british rule? maybe not what you would expect to hear. but kohwar (ph) ratanjit singh, that's reggie for short, his family was different. indian royalty with palaces, the 1 percent of the 1 percent. so life for reggie as a young boy was, relative to the millions and millions of others his age, enchanted. shimla is from a time before partition, when nearly the entire ruling class of british india would move to hill stations in the hotter months. shimla was once known as the queen of all hill stations. here, the colonials created england in miniature complete with tudor architecture, rose gardens, afternoon tea. garden parties, fancy dress balls, elephant hunts. the remnants of british rule can still be seen and felt. this is particularly true of one house -- chapslee. the house was purchased by reggie's grandfather, the last maharajah of kapurthala. (on my fellow guests, two of reggie's friends, raja bathil (ph), a historian on the subject of shimla, and rakash barlosou (ph), the barrister. (on what am i eating? this is eggs florentine. oh, that's good. this was a small town? unidentified mulligatawny soup. a classic example of what we think of as indian food in the west but not at all. this was originally a soup made by indian chefs to accommodate british tastes, is that correct? unidentified here, back before the rail line, it would be a difficult trip. unidentified but once they were up and running, there were many servants to look after your every need. you had a fireplace, a hearth in every room. unidentified wow. unidentified right. unidentified white knuckles. so we got here vegetable curry? unidenitified agricultural? unidentified what are they growing? unidentified and weed. people grow marijuana here? unidentified most of it as an export product or for personal use? unidentified yes, let's take a walk through town, see what's going on. unidentified i've been to mumbai, calcotta, (inaudible), rajasthan, kerala -- this is a part of india that's different than any other part. look, it's fascinating and beautiful. (music) oh, yes. sweet. whoa, it's moving. unidentified the narrow streets and neatly dressed schoolchildren of zanzibar's stone town make it feel like a very different africa than i've ever known. it's tight, small. the architecture speaks of many layers. the hierarchy long gone but still evident. the famous zanzibari doors, for instance. meticulously carved of mahogany and teak. the patterns reveal details of the original inhabitants' ethnicity and professions. brass spikes evoke similar doors in india. the lotus flower, a historically egyptian symbol that's meant to promote fertility. and chains, a reminder that this once was a central hub of the slave trade. what zanzibar is today is definitely and overwhelmingly saoud saeed (ph) is a native zanzibari and former tour guide, and he knows his way around these parts. (on four generations, so that's starting out in the... unidentified wow. who built this neighborhood? unidentified right. unidentified why? unidentified so it was just -- there was no option? stick with what was left? unidentified tough times? unidentified right. was this village sort of a center for revolutionary... we're here for lunch. good. this i can do by hand. the rice, i need help. good. that's looking good. so coconut rice. japati bread from the other side -- other side of the water there. cassava? pan-fried bread. look at all these kids. watch out. future revolutionaries. optimistic? good. i think let me find some of the octopus. unidentified i like hot. all right, good. give me some chili mango with that. all right, good. mmm. i like it. it's chewy but tasty. lobster is working for me. too spicy for you, ma'am. yes. believe me, only one of us is going to be shitting like a (unintelligible) tonight. and it's not going to be you. the famous zanzibar pizza. awesome. unidentified sounds awesome to me. looks good. thank you. mmm. weird and wonderful. mmm. right. i ordered beef for now. beef is good. i'll take half a chicken. unidentified yes, sure. unidentified juma is famous for his chicken. the bird is slathered with a mixture of garlic, lime, coriander, ginger, salt and pepper. then, it's grilled and served either as a satay or whole pieces topped with tamarind chili sauce. unidentified how many guys are working here? unidentified six or seven of them. unidentified wow, it's like a big operation. he's finishing the skewers, i guess he's half-cooking or saucing. he's re-heating, finishing the skewers. that guy doesn't just set up plates for him to top with meat. and then i guess they've got the bread and sauce and finishing them to go, also. what are they squirting on the fries? unidentified so you never go hungry here. there's always food in the street. unidentified right. unidentified there we go. unidentified hot, hot, hot. where do you think the recipe came from? this is a real mixed-up history here? unidentified tamarind, southeast asia, not even india. damn, that's good. damn. the chicken is really awesome. i might need some more of this. i'm liking the heat, man. good stuff. incredible. oh, yes. whoo! magnificent. will he charge us? if we piss him off? thousands and thousands of wildebeests on their annual migration are everywhere. a big circle stretched out across tanzania and into kenya, in search of prime grazing. it's all about water and grass and a good place to make babies. really? how long has it been there? really? right. they love pesto. they're coming ashore. over thankfully cold beers, i learn who is really the most dangerous animal here. yeah that's right, mr. lovable funny hippo, always in a tutu in the cartoon, a vicious, unpredictable and apparently incredibly fast moving killer. yeah just get between them and their mud hole and they'll be all over you like justin beiber's bodyguards, it can get ugly. what do hippo penises look like? did a hippo never emerges from the water with like a... ... with a hippo hard on? really? i find that comforting to know. (commercial break) (foreign language) they are among the last great warrior tribes on earth. semi-nomadic, they believe that all the world's cattle are a gift of the gods to them, the maasai people. they move with their animals across the tanzanian plains, setting up homes where they find the best grazing. their cattle are everything, the wealth of the family, units of currency, givers of milk to live and on special occasions of meat and blood. the maasai construct their villages or boma's like this, a strategic hamlets designed to repel and discourage predators. ingela jansson, field biologist, serengeti lion the big cats, lions roam free here, an area of the serengeti called nduto. swedish native ingela jansson, a field biologist for the serengeti lion project is trying to find a balance between the needs, traditions, and basic identity of the maasai people to the outside world's desire to protect these beautiful killing machines. this is what could happen when a maasai warrior defending his cattle takes on a hungry adult lion, nobody wants this. for the maasai being apprised of the comings and goings of the lion population is a useful thing, preferable to find out in advance one would think and take evasive action than the alternative. but remember too and respect that the maasai have always defined themselves and their identities by their enemy, a tribe of proud warriors. what happens when there's no one and nothing to fight? ingela has brought several maasai on her team to show them up close the lions they share this land with. this is amasi by the way, a lumpy yogurt like drink central to the maasai diet. cheers. and before you say yuck, it might be worth noting that between their nearly 100 percent protein diet of meat, blood, and dairy, the maasai are known to have near super human cardio. olympic level stamina and condition, they can run miles at a time without rest or water and can basically kick your ass at near any physical contest given half the chance. so, help yourself to some sour lumpy goodness. not bad, a little honey, some raisins in there, good to go. i'm ok with it. currently ingela has been tracking two lions in particular, ramus (ph) and puyo (ph). i see -- yes i do, there're they are, i see them. wow, two of them. you like them don't you? yeah. right. what's total population of lions do you think the country want? and they were beautiful. (commercial break) just a few miles from the crater's rim, the ceo (ph) village about 400 maasai live here. (foreign language) olioderup (ph) is the chief. he has four wives, 12 children a handful of whom are old enough to be out looking after the herds. unidentified i was born in new jersey and live in new york. you have a son in new jersey, yeah? unidentified oh sure i don't know (ph) montclair very well. unidentified here (ph) where i grow up. unidentified not us. the maasai have been migrating with the seasons since they came to this part of africa some time in the 15th century. long, long before the serengeti become a national park. and here we run into kind of existential conflict we'll be seeing more and more of as the world decide what they valued most. unspoiled expanses of nature populated still with magnificent wild but aggressively protected animals or the indigenous people. if you have no alternative. unidentified with all of the cattle inside people house. how do you protect them from predators? unidentified so, how about when they grazing? unidentified and that's enough to discourage hyaenas or lion. unidentified that's a happy one. unidentified no problem. unidentified but that purring one that, the second noise that's good? unidentified that's a here kitty situation. unidentified ok. wow my cat hate me. unidentified ok, this a lot of you are going to find very disturbing. i'm guessing the little goat over there is about to get the bad news. unidentified i try and be a good guest. i eat what my host put in front of me. i try to take responsibility if something dies for my dinner. stand here? unidentified this one? unidentified so when the chief asked if i care to do the honors and tells me how it has to be done, i'm not happy. in fact, as i close off its air passages, i'm struggling to not throw up on myself. unidentified not well enough. unidentified the maasai traditionally kill their goats by suffocation for very good reason it turns out. they keep the blood which is a vital component for the maasai diet intact and abundant in the chest cavity. unidentified more? unidentified good, everything is intact, beautiful. unidentified it filled up the cavity... unidentified ... and started to get coagulate. unidentified i get it now. unidentified right. unidentified wow. unidentified that's really -- i've never seen that. that's super cool. unidentified sure. (foreign language) not bad. unidentified that's a kidney. unidentified yup, just a little piece. a little. deep done, it's time for a little kidney. enjoy the spoils, then party. it's sweet, actually, that's good. i like it better than like this than cooked. (commercial break) unidentified even on the serengeti, it ain't a barbecue if there ain't some kind of beer. unidentified i love to try it some. (foreign language) how can you (ph) change in the mood? (foreign language) not bad. it's like a palm wine or (inaudible) like kind of cool (inaudible) like a taste, also... yeah. everybody's ready. unidentified many aspects of their lifestyle and traditions remain unchanged. perfect. this does not mean maasai don't have cellphones by the way. everybody does. unidentified i've got some other question, you know, when your son comes back live from new jersey, you know, is your son going to want a motorcycle, is he going to want a car, is he going to watch flat screen t.v.? unidentified it's beautiful this country, this part of africa. geographically huge but not really as the world and what we need to live in it shrinks everyday. who gets to live here? who or what do we want to see, is for better or worst who wanted to determine that. nearly $1.5 billion spent here every year by people who come wanting to look mostly at beautiful animals. that is an amount it is hard to argue with and impossible to outrun. (music) anthony bourdain, anthony bourdain parts unknown good to be here, again. maurelia i love it here. claudio thank you. claudio this is claudio and maurelia. it's good to have friends in a place like salvador. in fact, you're pretty much lost without them. tuesday night in (inaudible). claudio you have to work tomorrow, right? maurelia i guess that's brazil, right? maurelia so how different is salvador from rio and sao paulo? claudio pelourinho, pelo for short, was salvador during the portuguese colonial period. it's almost always a party, a series of parties, actually, but tonight is special. claudio smells good. claudio oh, that's good. maurelia so, where to next? maurelia yup. claudio what is it? claudio alcohol? claudio alcohol of unknown original in dispensed from a top of the head of a stranger? it's good. claudio mama always said that was a good idea. i don't know if it's the booze or the music or the tropical heat, but after a while bouncing from place to place, wandering down old cobblestone streets, different music issuing from everywhere, a different party, people flowing out of buildings, one gathering, commingling with another, the music mixing, it really does seem that everybody is moving to some mysterious unknowable pulse, some unheard throb that moves people to constantly touch each other, stroke hips, necks, limbs. it is useful to know that of over 12 million africans dragged, ripped and kidnapped from their homelands, nearly five million ended up in brazil. 1.5 million of them in bahia alone. pelourinho became the locus of a vast infrastructure of plantations and the slave trade that powered them. making this city in northeastern brazil the most opulent in the new world. pelourinho, it's worth pointing out, gets its name from the whipping post. a hundred years after slavery was outlawed in brazil, pelourinho had been forgotten. but of course, the neighborhood had its charms. if you were an artist, a musician, a writer, you could afford to live here. cheap rent for long-time locals or shiny new art galleries at hipster cafes, we know which way the current of history runs. here though, one man stands alone. jayme figura a poet, sculptor, painter, musician, now perhaps his own greatest artistic creation. he's chosen to hide his face from view and to stand in opposition, an eyesore, a rebuke, a defiant war-like embarrassment to the occupiers. as he dresses now, this is for protection but as i understand, also protest. unidentified who's the enemy? unidentified how long have you been wearing the armor? how long? unidentified 46 years. that was a long time ago. you ever been on the beach? unidentified you're goth, dude. just down from where we're sitting, jayme's pelourinho studio. his water and power have been shut off, but he insists he's going nowhere. brazil is supposed to be about what, music, dancing, sun, hot women. does he reject those things? does he think it's (inaudible)? unidentified where would the perfect place be? unidentified rock city. that's detroit. unidentified detroit, rock city. what music inspires him? iron maiden. i think they're touring, actually. nirvana, metallica? beethoven. what do you think about all of this? i mean anybody who comes here recognizes immediately that this is a really uniquely extraordinary and despite many problems, a uniquely wonderful, magical place unidentified so, what is the real pelourinho? unidentified i don't like pina coladas but i like walking in the rain. i like wandering through markets as much as the next guy, but what i really like are neurotoxins. in japan, they call it fugu. yeah, yeah, yeah, it's eyes, ovaries and internal organs are just packed with varying amounts of toxins and some hysterical mini's (ph) will tell you the tetrodotoxin present in the blowfish is 1,200 times more potent than cyanide. and they'll tell you how if it's consumed, you remain conscious while your muscles gradually become paralyzed and death, like a slow-moving freight train, moves closer and closer. and whatever you do, just make sure you cut out that liver. i say (inaudible). so, we're eating blowfish. bel like the japanese, they like the poisons. but they remove the liver and the skin and all of that. right. properly, right. i saw a simpson's episode, i think. poisonous blowfish (inaudible) recipe. add to said fish, lemon, coriander, onion, tomato, coconut milk, dende oil, cover and simmer. i am confident in this cook i don't know. and in this man, bel borba, my host and an aficionado of this dish. smelling good. borba, thank you. oh, yeah. good pepper. nice and spicy. i can't feel my legs. is that a bad thing? bel is an artist, after all. a very famous one. so, he knows about neurotoxins. he comes from a long tradition of artists who have found inspiration in bahia. is there something about salvador you think that's conducive to an artistic sensibility? i mean there's so much color here and music. the life is really special. i mean, just the colors of the city are amazing. the colors of the people are amazing, and the way they move. i don't know, when i first came here, i thought everybody in this city looks like they're -- they just got or they're on their way to go. so this was the central market back before supermarkets, this is where everybody did their shopping, right? right. oh, yeah. yeah, i love the dende oil. you know, it takes some getting used to. the first time i was here, you know, you eat it, you shit like a mink for hours afterwards. but now, no problem. i've been eating this all week. i love it. if you're in your first time in brazil you will... yeah. there you go buddy. hope you like spicy. he's a brazilian cat. he's got to like spicy. a little (inaudible). told you. that will set you right. right. we're coming up to the world cup and i mean a lot of people are going to be reading about crime and all that. how do you think it's going to go, the world cup? disaster or it's going to somehow workout? you think it will be a success. salvador is one of the host cities for the 2014 world cup. a huge stadium has recently been completed, but a lot of people are worried, concerned, if brazil is ready. i've been told thousands of prostitutes are studying tourist-appropriate languages in preparation, so probably a lot of people are going to get laid, a lot of people are going to get robbed, a lot of people are going to get laid and robbed. no. well that's... and that works out, right? that's not a slaughter fest. right. i think salvador in particular is a place where... no matter -- thank you. no matter what people should come. even people who are afraid to travel, who say oh, well, but i hear. no, you know what, this is, live your life, man. you should not miss a place like this, because there aren't a lot of places in the world that even come close to this. yeah, i'm pretty sure. yeah, i'm pretty sure mr. muffin stuff over here is going to suddenly jump on, he start clawing my face. i didn't think of that. but it -- but i shall call you canary. no. (commercial break) the bay of all saints, a vast natural harbor allowed salvador to prosper. tucked along its shore, if you look hard enough, you'll find a small grouping of shacks roofed in corrugated tin. this is where a local fishermen's association brings their catch to sell to wholesalers, and then relax after a long day on the water. catch of the day, the prized big red snapper. rub with sea salt, lemon, olive oil, grill over charcoal. enjoy view. so everybody here is fishermen? meet, maloca (ph), a very special guy. he's been working as our head of security and as for reasons that are immediately obvious, he enjoys respect and reputation on the streets. but he also comes out of this neighborhood and these guys are his friends. how's business now? i mean, lot of fish out there? fishing business good? lunch wouldn't be complete without a delicious spicy salsa of garlic, tomato, onions and peppers. on the side, some deep fried little smelts. don't forget the beer and the cachaca and enjoy. yeah. that will work. it looks like a big grouper. unidentified it's spicy. what do they drink, beer or cachaca? both. all right. still working? unidentified they use a line or net? a line. unidentified right. unidentified they don't cut the hands? unidentified fishing anywhere is hard and the way these guys do it, particularly hard. mostly hand lines from small boats. just look at these hands. ok. you're a hard man, literally. yeah, that's what i want, right here. oh, yeah. jackpot. that's -- you'll pardon the expression, some good head. unidentified it's awesome. unidentified looking good. take him to slow him right on the (inaudible). that is a good piece of fish. beautiful. (commercial break) here in rio, you'll give anything less to that perfectly cut, you feel terrible going to the beach. you never want to go to the beach. here, you can frolic in a speedo and feel pretty good about myself. they let it all hang out of here. caipirinha? unidentified the caipirinha man. this indispensable icon of brazilian beach culture is known to start with fresh lime, muddle and mash with more lime juice, sugar, ice, the magic ingredient, cachaca. that's basically the distilled liquor of the sugar cane. shaken, not stirred, and you've got yourself one of the world's truly great cocktails, the utility beverage good for any time of day or any social occasion. very satisfying. these toasted cheese things here, awesome. if there's anything better than cheese, it's semi-melted cheese. and what's the best part of french onion soup? it's the little burned bits piece of cheese around the edge. yeah. just as good as it looks. look at this line. these guys are famous. acaraje, i've had it before. i have had it here, in fact. these ladies make it good. really good. the clothes go back to the newly freed slaves who now were able to practice their religion and began selling the acaraje to support the candomble community. what is acaraje? behold. a paste, a butter, a falafel like wad or smooched up black-eyed peas, seasoned with brown brine shrimp and onions, deep fried to crispy and golden with some chili spike in dende oil. already if you're a rookie, you're guaranteed some quality time on the porcelain bus real soon. on the top, you got you're vatapa, which is sort of a shrimp curry paste. and your tomato salad, your fried shrimp, camarao frito, a must. all right, beautiful. don't forget the hot chili oil and prepare for lift-off. really good. (commercial break) when millions of africans were taken by force to brazil, the traditions, the musical roots they had, instruments they played, their gods and their food came with them. in the days of slavery, you would hide that stuff, whether it was your religion or your self- defense skills. so tell me about capoeira. unidentified no hand, right? both feet and the head? why no hands? unidentified where did that come from and why do you think that became... unidentified in a recent study observing the comparative destructive power between kicks from various martial arts, of karate, muay thai and taekwondo, it was capoeira that packed the most ferocious impact. the colonial masters knew this and made it illegal for much of brazil's history. today, maestros like chanja and paulinia (ph) teach capoeira in classrooms and on stages. originally it was a male- dominated activity. when did that change? unidentified what was it like in the beginning? the very first women who did it? unidentified right. unidentified afro brazilian cuisine is the result of many, many years of cooks experimenting with african and portuguese dishes combined with local ingredients like seafood, chillies, coconut milk. this is angelica's (ph) house. open one day a week as a restaurant serving her unique style of bahian dishes. beautiful. wow. look at that. angelica how has being a master of capoeira, how has that changed the rest of your life? unidentified it was purely african in the beginning, and now it's afro- brazilian form, is that correct? unidentified right. they're singing. a lot of singing, and it's important. unidentified all the things that we look at as brazilian, from outside looking in, the cuisine, samba, all of these things are very african in origin. and this is kind of where that all started, yes? i mean, i want to say it's the real brazil. everyone looks at rio as the postcard brazil, but here it's really -- you feel it, those things. unidentified if you say found yourself in brazil and had a chance to hire a boat, head for the beach with a bunch of new friends, bring along a skilled mixologist, expertly who trained in the fine arts of caipirinha making, why wouldn't you? charge across the water, headed for a nice, quiet island, water up and sun come out behind dark clouds, right about now. sometimes cliches are cliches for a reason. because they're good ideas to start with, which is why people keep looking for them and doing them over and over. in a perfect world upon reaching said enchanted island, you jump into the warm atlantic waters, and if you could, you would have a classic soundtrack to this adventure, like samba, for instance. splash around for a while, maybe enjoy a nice cold beer or two. you truly have not taken a beach until a man has set up the caipirinha station. then you know the l.z. is secure. i love nature and caipirinha. oh what's going on here? caipirinha. please. sweet. this alone is an argument for the greatness of this country. and what goes great with caipirinha is on the beach? how about some barbecue? (inaudible) would show here by the way. someone has take it. please, (inaudible) don't eat me. look in your heart. don't eat me. oh, no. not my head. to complete the picture, maybe a large fish. maybe some crab. you know, anytime you get your chinese, your brazilians and your italians all agreeing on something, it's pretty clear it's a really good idea. everybody agrees that this complicated looking creature with all those troublesome shells is worth the work. so, you tear off the little limbs. we'll get to you a little later, my friends. rip out the tail. these are the lungs you don't want them. now, you've got all this nice fat in there. oh, yeah. now, we're getting to the claw. look at that. let's poke him out of there. oh, yeah. this should do that little melon of goodness. like a celestial nipple. when people started demanding boneless stuff like chicken without a bone or crab meat without the actual crab, or lazy lobster, that was the beginning of the erosion of our society as we know it. if you're not willing to work for a payoff like this, how do you expect us to like fight al-qaeda, if you can't suck the meat out of a crab? a character builder, and delicious. and if your perfect day really did happen, you would probably let yourself be swept away. by liquor, and good food, and gin clear water, while all around you, horny brazilians, casually fondle each other, get all dozy and fall asleep. anthony bourdain, for most people, paraguay is an empty space on the map of latin america. a country of only six million where a vast percentage of the land is steaming hot jungle or a huge scrub desert known simple as the chaco. only a few large cities offer a respite from the impressive heat. a thousand miles upriver from the atlantic ocean sits asuncion, paraguay's remote capitol city, known largely for being a post-war refuge for fleeing nazis and a long line of extremely unpleasant dictators, this place, of all the places in the world, is where my great-great-great-grandfather, jean bourdain, disappeared without explanation sometime in the 1850s. i'm told you're a man who can help me. how do you do? unidentified please. unidentified first time in paraguay, yes. all right. let's get something to eat. i'm hungry. this is sort of the counterfeiting capital of the world. in the old days it's said much of this counterfeiting had partners in the government. not so much anymore? unidentified sometime in the mid-19th century, 1850s, jean bourdain emigrated to south america, first in argentina but apparently came here. that's really almost all i know for sure. did he die by the sword? did he die of old age? did he die of syphilis?have no idea. i'd like to know. i would like to find a grave site. that would be great. you know, my father died at 57. his father in, i think, 20 -- in his 20s, i believe. i'll be 58 in june. i think i am the longest living male bourdain in possibly ever. unidentified i am lonely in the world, yes. if i could solve the mystery of the elusive jean bourdain it would make me very happy. by the way, it would be terrific if you found out that he owned a huge ranch in the chaco, and they've been waiting for his relatives to claim his property. maybe not. i'm trying to make some sense of this country. you've lived here how long? unidentified so what's good to eat here? unidentified yes. unidentified i'm there. good. unidentified that looks good. that looks very good. unidentified that's good, man. i'm trying to make some sense of this country. you lived here how long? unidentified why did you come here in the first place? unidentified i haven't seen anything of this country yet, but what i read was that the world's back water filled with bombed-out banks that had been looted, institutions that didn't work. everyone carried a gun. it was like the wild west but poorer. it's not that anymore? unidentified seldom in the history of the world have i seen any country where, one after the other, you've had absolutely the most maniacal, insane, suicidal group of piss-pot dictators century after century. unidentified how was the soup? unidentified this is the only country of latin america where the indigenous language is the official language. unidentified a proudly mestizo society. unidentified was it de francia? unidentified el supremo, got to love it. today 95 percent of paraguayans are of mixed spanish and guarani blood. unidentified quatro. this is the big one? unidentified i'm hungry. what's good here? unidentified ah. what's he got over there? that looks good. unidentified so you invite them and give them the catfish stew? unidentified that soup? unidentified so it's cheesy cornbread? unidentified awesome. good meal. so this was the house or one of the houses of the notorious madam lynch. guido rodriguez alcala, now who exactly was madam lynch. a murky background, would you say? she came over on the famous trip from france. which dad wasn't too happy about? right. kept as a mistress. princess? tell me about madam lynch's famous boat trip. once on board, as the story goes, those mean bitches treated their hostess like so much trash. she had it all thrown in the river? going back to the very beginnings, various groups with stars in their eyes came here seeking to create a utopia along ideological lines, a mennonite paradise. repopulate latin america with aryan germans. british, italians, i mean, you had everybody. unidentified new bordeaux. i had a great-great-great-grandfather come over to paraguay around the 1850s. unidentified might have been, himself, a seeker of some kind of utopian dreams. unidentified from france, yes. unidentified my great-great-grandfather was from near bordeaux. so i'm curious about this whole episode of the settlement of nouveau bordeaux. right. that's a peacemaker. any rogue nazis we can shoot now? cheers. here we go. thank you. a little fish and a mango salsa. unidentified and that's the... unidentified oh, the dorado, of course. yes. ooh, that's tasty. ooh, that's nice. so i'm curious about this whole episode of the settlement of nouveau bordeaux. unidentified who were the other people? unidentified right. why here of all of the places in the world? people talk about the chaco as a hell. i mean, it's hot here -- it's dry, it's red, (inaudible), it's difficult. unidentified a flatland of cactus and thorns and misery and cannibals (ph). unidentified did the paraguayans ever see this as a utopia? unidentified that? unidentified wow. that's kind of not how i pictured it. doesn't look like bordeaux to me. there's nothing much left of nouveau bordeaux. i'm told a small museum of artifacts. the site where the colony once briefly existed is now called viahars (ph). unidentified perhaps there was a communication breakdown somewhere and he might have told the paraguayans i'm bringing you the finest farmers france has to offer. unidentified and he might have told these frenchmen, oh, they're going to give you free property. you don't have to do anything. you'll live like kings. just reach up in the trees and fruit and gold bars are dropping. unidentified these poor french guys show up. unidentified lopez sr. and the government kept their side of the bargain. they provided them with houses, equipment. unidentified needs to have one of these. makes pressed sandwiches, i think. and that's it. dig, grow. the settlers quickly discovered that farming is hard work, and that the conditions in the chaco (ph) in no way resembled the new france of their dreams. that's a big snake. unidentified how many french were left at the end of the new bordeaux experiment? did any stay? unidentified any thoughts or hopes that jean bourdain ended his life here, leaving me a vast unclaimed stake in what is now prime cattle country turns quickly to dust. (commercial break) so you guys have some information perhaps on the elusive jean bourdain, i hear? i don't know what he did here. of course i'm hoping for something extremely glamorous. a river pirate, a gun runner, drug smuggler. maybe he died in the saddle. maybe he died happy. maybe he was like colonel kurtz, living out in the bush, surrounded by adoring indigenous women. i don't know. you know, if he was a masseur for madam lynch, i guess i would be let down. unidentified oh, really? unidentified okay. interesting. unidentified okay, the facts as i know them so far, i think are this. my great, great, granddad, jean, his son also named jean, came to montevideo, uruguay, to live with his uncle. unidentified there he is. unidentified a hat maker? i'm pretty sure he said hat maker, which i have to say disappoints me, like a lot. the whole elusive wing of mysterious south american bourdains were "project runway" contestants of their day? unidentified right. with madam lynch. unidentified madam lynch was fond of things like french couture. unidentified madam lynch might have been good for business. i'm trying to put this in a light i can be enthusiastic about. like how clearly forward thinking my relatives were. his customers, as a hat maker. the very people that treated madam lynch with such utter contempt, did they live in the colonial homes? the old mansions that we see still in asuncion, that type of residence? unidentified times were changing in south america too in those days. society ladies craved the latest au courant french fashion. there was money to be made. i'm bummed. unidentified jean bourdain died in 1858. unidentified he missed the war? unidentified our man becomes president. unidentified absolutely the most maniacal, megomaniacal piss pot (ph) dictator. unidentified he was rather unkind to his siblings. unidentified tiger cages. unidentified right. unidentified the 60 something-year-old mother was flogged and beaten in front of him. not a nice man. unidentified that's right. he was refused in very unflattering terms. thanks presumably to lopez jr.'s expansionist ambitions, he dragged paraguay into the triple alliance war. he essentially challenged all three neighbors. unidentified to war. this doesn't seem like a good idea. (laughter) unidentified in what would become the bloodiest war in latin america's history, hundreds of thousands of paraguayans died. when lopez ran out of adults, he sent children into the field, dressed only in rags, armed with sticks painted to look like guns. unidentified lopez eventually was hunted down. madam lynch survived. unidentified but with her money, i mean, was she allowed to keep her possessions? unidentified in history it's hard to find a more disastrous or more cruel or a pointless campaign, it would seem. when all was said and done, as much as 60 percent of the population and 90 percent of the men of this country were dead. unidentified jean bourdain dies here? unidentified right. cause of death? unidentified is there a grave site? unidentified so i'm hungry. i'm really hungry. you know you want it. it's late. you've had a few. no, you had a lot. you want something greasy, savory, juicy and nasty. this is it. palentiveri lavido (ph). unidentified an egg, a little runny please. some kind of meat, like beef patty thing. throw on your lettuce and tomato. two sauces -- no idea what they are, and frankly don't care. soy sauce i think too. of course, because, yes. and like the ruins of ancient troy, egg on top of cheese on top of meat. now get in my stomach now. sandwich is awesome. unidentified good awesome. all my greasy meat dreams have come true, that's good. and at the last moment, the last thing i give a steaming loaf about anymore is my long dead relatives -- i mean, i am over it. here comes news of the big breakthrough. unidentified really? unidentified right. unidentified fireworks? unidentified like fire crackers? unidentified so are you suggesting something untoward? unidentified weapons? unidentified he was a merchant of death? awesome. you know, my aunt always said he was a gun runner. we figured she was full of shit. i mean, she also said she was in the resistance, you know, but everybody in france said that. (laughter) so, arms? so was he ever a hat-maker? or was that just a cover job? was he a hat maker/arms? are all these local researchers, historians and geniuses on the money here? was great great great grampy an arms dealer? what hat makers needs 200 tons of gun powder? i've got you now, jean bourdain. i've got you now. or was he simply a party supplier, selling fine french hats and little firecrackers to school kids? i don't know what to believe. unidentified right. unidentified wow. well, i guess we'll have to go look, huh? unidentified sorry, little buddy. there's no escaping it. paraguay loves their beef. it's a perfect ratio, a lot of meat, little bit of vegetables. oh, whoa, that's good. this is the via stanzia corrarodeo (ph), a sprawling ranch bigger than some of the countries i've traveled to, and it's been in the family going all the way back to the triple alliance war. hard life? or a good life? unidentified where does the boom come from? unidentified how many acres? unidentified 100,000 hectares. unidentified toriso morsia (ph), i could eat this all day. and i will. unidentified mmm, that's awesome. so were there a lot of vegetarians in this part of paraguay? (laughter) unidentified oh, look at that. pretty. beef short ribs are amazing. mmm, so good. all of the books i read about paraguay are maybe 15 years old. and like the first advice is, everybody has a gun, buy a gun. unidentified this was not the paraguay i expected at all. unidentified jean bourdain who died here in asuncion was my great great great grandfather. unidentified nobody i know. unidentified right. unidentified what? the weather is the big unknown around here. it's changeable enough to ground planes in remote places if they hang around for too long. we have to make one stop on the way to pick up more cargo. vital cargo, by the way. the land we're passing over is beautiful and lush. but the life of those below has been anything but. unidentified until recently most of the news coming out of this part of colombia was not good. it was a front line in the war on drugs, for lack of a better term, and colombia's long struggle with the farc, a marxist guerrilla force financed by drug trafficking, kidnapping and covert assistance from venezuela. fifty years of a very dirty war. the stakes not about drugs per se, but about the ability of ordinary colombians to live without fear. we land in the jungle outpost of miraflores in the southern province of (inaudible) in the amazonian forest reserve. the heavy presence of army and special police is a result of its strategic location and recent history as a one-time center of cocoa production. farmers here would grow the stuff and make leaves into paste. traffickers would come and buy it. the farc had this area under its sphere of influence for years. nine years ago, the government moved to expel the farc, the traffickers and any paramilitaries, with apparently much success. overnight, however, its population shrank by 85 percent. and what remains struggles to survive. (on so if you were having problems in the city or wherever you were from, you came out here? so what did you do for a living out here? the climate is good for it? yes. so really the problems in this country preexisted the drug trade? right. yes. you're running a subsystems farm (inaudible) plantains and not much else? not even particularly well, you know, you're not particularly happy with the government, somebody comes along and offers you a nice machine gun and a cool scarf. especially if you're 15, 16 years old. that's a pretty attractive option. and even if they say you'll probably be dead by the time you're 25. come on. so what is the future of this town? julio cesar gonzalez, what our people say is without the customer, there's no -- there's no cocaine trade and there's no violence, right? so if the united states and europe stopped buying cocaine? but the demand in the states is down 40 percent. the united states spends how many billions of dollars a year paying for guns and uniforms, training, et cetera. where should they be spending it? here's my problem. if crack didn't exist, i would have no -- i would absolutely agree with you, but as a former coke addict and as a former crackhead -- that is a problem. you're freeing up a lot of money that you could divert to this. i'm with you. i agree. it's a beautiful country. the people here are -- from what i've been is really nice, even the bad guys are charming. the food is delicious. the problem is the united states will never legalize drugs. it will never happen. it's a complicated issue. so the good people of this town could thank us for bringing their -- -- fresh supply of coca. cerveza, ok. the thing now, gentlemen, it was really our pleasure. (commercial break) bourdain did i mention that this city is over 8,000 feet up? hence the altitude sickness i'm feeling. not good. tomas comes here a few times a week for an early breakfast, which i'm hoping will make me feel better. paloquemao market has been running in one form or another since the 1940s. (on yes. what do you have? it's probably the healthiest thing i've had in a while. yes. i'm feeling better every hour. the first hour is killing me. i didn't think i was going to make it out of the airport. (laughter) why? ok. hell no. ain't happening. i do. yes. now we're talking. i was just going to say, this is hangover food. i know hangover food well and this is good. there's good meat in there. good broth. the stock is good. so what is this dish called? broth -- rib broth. rib broth. caldo de costilla con tatos. i don't speak spanish. i speak a little mexican. (laughter) bourdain it's beautiful. it is a thing of beauty, isn't it? that's a high standard. i was just in miraflores yesterday. what economy there was was entirely drug-based economy. i mean, now that the drugs are gone, there is no economy. it's a ghost town. it's a military and people sitting there staring at the space waiting for the beer to arrive. best i can understand. tell me something hopeful. well, it never is. if you removed cocaine from the equation, if you removed the drug trade as a financial engine, you would still have serious divisions over ideology here. is that improving? right. you would know what to do? to suggest that a nation should expand its social services, do its best to lift people out of poverty, to provide medical care for everyone, as you well know, that may be in the minds of many as the same as (inaudible). are those as dangerous and potentially deadly ideas as they used to be? nobody cooks at home. maybe their cook does. so they eat out a lot? so 10 years ago, 15 years ago, what? traditional casual food? a few fine dining, you know, white tablecloths, serve, what, french or continental or italian? but this is new. right. right. right. right? still. so what happened? how did you go from music to restaurants? good. it's great that business is good because generally speaking, the only worse idea that i think i'll try to make a living making music is i think i'll make a living by opening a restaurant. let's see why that's so popular? good stuff. you're right. (laughter) do you cure this first in salt or -- dry it? salt it? just fresh -- you know, the -- delicious. so you'd never get this off your menu. you'll have to keep this on your menu forever, right? yes. this is -- mama didn't raise no fool. el tejo. hence the name of the -- unidentified i should be good at this. i've been throwing pots into the dish sink from across the room for years. unidentified oh. unidentified but that doesn't sound like any fun. unidentified i don't think that style is going to work for me. who am i with? i'm over here with these guys. whoa. (crosstalk) holy crap, two in a row? this is (inaudible). no, wait. one of those guys had to be on my team, right? unidentified the old chicken. unidentified i need a poultry name. he's calling himself the old chicken. i should be the enormous cock. the chicken dude is killing it. yes, he's -- every time. that's what i'm talking about. but i wanted something to blow up. right. unidentified it's not a clam. unidentified it's delicious. wow. unidentified very cool. unidentified (inaudible) is -- unidentified yes, i'm learning that. unidentified from cane sugar. unidentified so what are your favorite places in colombia? unidentified i'm planning a vacation. should i come to colombia? should i come to cali? unidentified yes, yes, look, the country is beautiful, we know this. ok. but most americans, they're afraid to come. is colombia any more dangerous for a tourist than rio or puerto rico? unidentified i mean, my impression is no. you know, when you go to rio, you don't wear a big watch, you don't wear an expensive suit, you don't -- you don't behave like an idiot, and life is going to be good. unidentified i mean, there's a lot of hearty here. people feel very, very deeply. unidentified about things. it is the most welcoming country in latin america that i've been. unidentified you've been coming more for some time. is it good? so this is breakfast. a little bit of everything in there? now -- fresh this is delicious. not fresh this would not be so good. having taken on as much gas as can be mouth siphoned in one sitting, we're off again. let me set the scene. it's hot out here. desert hot. and we plan to ride three hours along the coast to our lunch spot, and i ate salty goat innards for breakfast and i refuse to wear a helmet or sun block. we avoid wild donkeys and goats and get lost more than a few times. so a little heat stroke leads to a lot of horsing around, and we decide to open these puppies up. (commercial break) bourdain you brought a change of clothes? i'm hurting now. i'm feeling every minute, every hour, every month and year of my age. yes. i trust it will make me feel all better. can't ask for better scenery. it's beautiful here. a good start. i'm done. that dog has the right idea. see, i'd be very happy if that was me right now. just like laying down in the sand with my chin out like that. man, it's so beautiful here. who comes here? right. but i mean, we saw one tourist all day. yes, it's nice, really it's completely off the grid. right. yes. i need a bath. very clear sky for the caribbean. oh, yes. oh, man. and colombia. we had good fun. cheers. empty? unbelievable. $5 million for that? that's -- you can't buy a garage in the hamptons for that basically. it is post-apocalyptic. i mean, it's like a science fiction film. what the hell happened here? detroit 2013. charlie leduff is a writer, journalist, television reporter. he grew up here. what was this like just before this? twenty years before. it is one of the most beautiful cities in america. it speaks of those industrial aid dreams of an endlessly glorious future. you know, the people who built these structures, they were thinking big. they were looking at a new rome and they built it, actually. it's so awesome here. maybe the worm started to come here. the packard automotive plant. opened in 1903, it was considered the most advanced facility of its kind anywhere in the world. huge, epically proportioned. i mean, 3.35 million square feet. now, one man lives here. al hill. alan hill, yes. it's enormous. yes. how many people worked here at its peak? this has been abandoned since the '50s? so how long has it been like this, though? within the last five years? wow. the place is pretty much open to anybody who wants to come in. yes. wow. you want to take pictures here. the place, like so much of detroit, invites it. urban exploring, as they call it, sifting through the remains of detroit's great american ongoing tragedy, photographing them, posing in front of them is something of an irresistible impulse. detroiters hate it. all the visitors like us, i should point out, wallowing in ruin porn. well, is this part of the factory? where are we standing? you're talking hundreds of thousands of people all working on the -- on the process. i mean, this is sort of a kind of -- you know, it's not a perfect model for detroit, but it's a perfect model when a big factory goes down, it's not just 33,000 people. that's 33,000 families who are going to be eating dinner out less. most people i would guess have no idea what a packard even was. we're talking about one of the great luxury cars in the world, yes? it's hard to look away from the ruin. to not find beauty in the decay. comparisons to angkor wat, machu picchu, ancient rome are inevitable. magnificent structures representing the boundless greens of the dead left to rot. yet angkor, that left his magna, people still live here. we forget that. you tell people you go to detroit and chances are somebody from the home team is going to say, "be sure to get a coney." i never really understood that. i mean, i'm like 30 minutes from a place called coney island where presumably, they know something about freaking hotdogs, right? maybe the early greeks or macedonians who first experienced that golden land by the shore then took what they saw with them to florida, michigan, and beyond. maybe they knew something. they've been doing coneys at duly's for over 90 years. that's almost as long as the hotdog's been around. and i can't tell you how deep this creation runs here. deep dish in chicago, cheesesteak in philadelphia. you'll find some ambivalence. not here. unidentified good. now, if i were from detroit, would i be eating this with my hands or with a fork? unidentified all right. i'll do my best. (laughter) unidentified logistical problems. that's delicious. this is the best of my only three coney experiences. you're open 24 hours. unidentified i don't know (inaudible) watch like seriously drunk people trying to eat this? unidentified is it a skill that you learn overtime? unidentified it's like kung fu. you know, you've got to just practice and practice. unidentified that's good. i think i better have another one of these. unidentified yes, i'll be better at it the next time around. unidentified it seems like a simple thing. hotdog, chili, raw onion, mustard, steamed bun. but the delicate interplay between these ingredients when done right is symphonic. (commercial break) detroit's problems are well-documented. a lot of attention has been paid to a history of spectacular mismanagement and corruption. detroit is hardly alone in this. (inaudible) in new york, we forget too soon, was a cesspit of mob influenced corruption. chicago, boston, machine politics, they wrote the book. but detroit differs in that its scandal seems so comically lurid. so surrealistically squalid. the last mayor, kwame kilpatrick, is currently serving time in the jug for some of his less hilariously bent behaviors. through all of it, one man seems to have known what's going on. adolph mongo, political strategist, oracle, survivor. he's seen it all. i know what i'm having, but i'd love a beer. adolph mongo, political what are you drinking? i'll have -- i'll fold under pressure. then i'll think about a burger down the way. you having something to eat? all right. i'll hold back. i will -- i will stick with this -- unidentified thank you. i have to ask, you're born and raised in the detroit area? an academic star. marine corps. journalism. why did you never run for office? well, it seems that whatever might be in your heart and however pure you might be, when you finally arrive in office, somebody brings you a big dossier and opens it up and said, mr. president, or mr. mayor, or mr. governor, this is the real situation. at which point it's an ocean trying to start making some serious accommodations. so kwame kilpatrick. want to flow in one there. old school -- he called you. are there good guys out there? presumably -- (crosstalk) run for office who would win? why don't they want to run? why should a bright young guy out of -- fresh out of law school start thinking about running for anything in the city of detroit? is detroit going to turn things around? i could lie and tell you yes. but you know what? this city is screwed. only place i've ever been that looks anything like detroit does now, chernobyl. i'm not being funny. that's the truth. abandoned. man. but you have to admire the bold, proud, ferociously enterprising survivors who decided to hang on, hang in, and figure out a way to not only survive, but do something extraordinary. there's tyree guyton's heidelberg project, the delightfully loony outdoor community art project that began in 1986 and now attracts 35,000 visitors per year from around the world. yes. (laughter) i love detroit. another block and more decay. and a liquor store. in this neighborhood, it's the only store for miles. just be right back. unidentified hey. how are you? (crosstalk) unidentified cheers. that's the benefit of a college education right there. people seem to like you in this town. who hates you in this town? nobody. huh? i'm guessing there are a number of politicians and former public employees who are not too happy. yes, but let's face it. there's a whole lot of people out there who would be perfectly happy with just letting detroit go. a backyard. a well-tended home surrounded by many neglected ones. an example of detroit-style entrepreneurship. greedy greg's, a do-it- yourself barbecue joint, started by these two. rochelle and greg. greedy greg, restaurant on the menu, absolutely delicious straight-from-the-grill ribs and rib tips. but the really good stuff is inside. superb smoked pork loaded collards, and mac and cheese. thank you so much. this is perfect. that's good. it's unbelievably good. the greens are incredible. so the greens, is that like smoked ham hoc? rochelle greg, restaurant you can't tell. well, i'll tell you, those are some of the best greens i've ever had. no doubt about it. yes. i've been all over the south. i've had a lot of greens and those are some -- they're not just delicious. they're luxurious. big hunks of you-won't-tell-me-what in there. (crosstalk) r. will this kind of entrepreneurship lead detroit out of its sinkhole? probably not. i can't believe there's not a line of cars around the corner. that was good. but it's no longer about winning, is it? it's about surviving. (commercial break) there are approximately 80,000 abandoned buildings within detroit's 140-square-mile city limits. what that translates to, unfortunately, is about 14 acts of arson a day. nearly 5,000 a year. that's just arson. that doesn't include the thousands of other types of fires and medical emergencies the detroit fire department responds to every day. with an ever-lower valued housing market where you can buy a home for as little as $500, many houses are burned down for the insurance. many because angry neighbors desperate to hang on see abandoned structures taken over by crack heads or drug gangs. with law enforcement stretched ridiculously thin, they resort to burning them out. they won't say it. i will. the detroit fire department is underfunded, underequipped, often badly and incompetently led, and up against what seems like a never ending war. a city on fire. their safety equipment, their boots, their clothes are often moldering and shambolic. but they fight on. this is the second time they've been to this house. if it happens to be arson, chances are no one will ever know for sure. given the ever- shrinking resources available to the department, most fires can't even be investigated. this fire is out within an hour. and after the fire, dinner. the cliche is that firemen are great cooks. in this case, the cliche is true. lieutenant mike devons and the boys of squad three are cooking up a family meal. is ever firefighter expected to cook reasonably well? unidentified really? unidentified it's almost a perfect society in that sense. because in a perfect society, i believe everybody should be able to feed themselves and their friends or their family at least reasonably well. that if they're not able to do that, they should be shunned and demonized and marginalized. unidentified firefighters, in my experience, are a lot like the marines i've met over the years. no matter how badly led, ridiculously underequipped, underappreciated, no matter how doomed their mission, they take a bizarre and quite beautiful pride in at least being screwed more than everybody else and doing it with style. they seem to do what they do for themselves. it's not a job. it's a calling. unidentified how old? unidentified but it gets beat up quick. unidentified where's the fire pole, dude? unidentified aw, man. unidentified what -- that means little boy, you know, my age, it was all about sparky the fire sliding the poles. unidentified what percentage of that number now? unidentified you know, i've got to say, the kitchen is looking pretty good. unidentified tonight's meal is being cooked by paul. he's squad three's best, they say. unidentified tonight's menu, crab cakes with a mix of actual crab, and this stuff. sea leg. maybe you know it from such beloved menu items as california roll. hey, firefighters can't afford 100 percent jumbo lump crab meat, ok? do you know what this stuff is, by the way? unidentified pollack. unidentified it's a miracle fish. you can actually make beef out of this, or beef-like substance. yes. it should be pointed out that every meal is paid for by the crew on duty. they pool their money and shop as a unit. what's the fire house favorite by consensus? unidentified steaks. if i were the -- you know, the regular cook here, the whole fire house would be in totally open rebellion? (laughter) unidentified i'd be making stews because they're cheap and i think they're delicious. plus i'd be trying it out like tripe and guts on you guys. i don't know how that would go. unidentified you'd be eating like italian peasants every day if i was to cook here. that pretty much -- you'd have like a big bowl of stew with a big hunk of bread. and i would be about it. and i'd be pocketing the difference. yes. lamb chops seared in the pan then finished over the grill. then caesar's salad with chicken. ever find out -- how are the other firefighters eating around the city? unidentified you ever tempted to just kind of like, to the other guys, say, oh yes, we had like foie gras with truffles and -- unidentified you know, the generation l.a. at the other day -- unidentified yes. lobster again. unidentified you know, i keep telling the guys no more lobster, i just can't take it. we're free to eat? unidentified so if it's not good, you're not diplomatic about it. unidentified yes, well-done, sir. generally speaking, you eat fast. because you never know. in all likelihood, you are not going to get to finish that meal. unidentified i'll do all the dishes -- unidentified wouldn't be the first time, won't be the last. unidentified at this point, you may be asking, what about all the cool stuff i hear about detroit? that's what you're thinking. the vibrant, new, do-it-yourself culture of urban renaissance, young entrepreneurs, artists, transforming the city one block at a time. where's that? well, that is happening. young, idealistic, true believing, hard- working creative people are indeed doing their best to bring light and hope and beauty to this greatest of cities. you've got to start with the deeply felt and absolute belief that detroit is indeed a great city and that it is worth saving. as utterly screwed as detroit may be, you have to be a twisted, unpatriotic freak to not believe that. behold the future. charlie (inaudible). yes. chef craig lieckfelt has done what many would call a very unwise thing. after working at gotham grill and jean-georges in manhattan, instead of staying where the money inarguably was, he returned to detroit. he's been working to get a brick-and-mortar establishment going by first doing regular pop-ups here at guns and butter, tucked into the back room of an art gallery, under an overpass in downtown detroit. do you have like a really weird attitude towards food in general? or all of that. we're going to eat well. charlie leduff may have a pulitzer prize, but his appreciation of fine food and dining is, shall we say -- lacking. simply put, he's a philistine. worn egg yolk with a generous helping smelt grow on top. egg with eggs? yes, please. leduff scarves his like he's at ruby tuesday's. you know, you get all these kids flooding into detroit. right. how is that going to play out? will there be political leadership in place to manage that fairly? no, it won't be fine, david. it will not be fine if there's not political leadership. it will not. are you an optimist -- you're an optimist despite -- chilled summer soup with melon, tomato, lemon barbino broth. craig lieckfelt, beautiful. thank you. delicious. i wouldn't even go that far. the drop sees an opportunity to make a melon (inaudible). you're putting gin in your soup? you're on your own, dude. you know, when i was chef and you poured gin in my soup, i would have stabbed you in the neck with my fork. i'm dying somewhere inside. you're like the worst-case scenario customer. next up, smoked mussels in a lightly steamed in white wine, aromatics and butter, served in a lobster broth with fried onions, honey and (inaudible). quite delicious. baby greek salad with beets, tomato and fennel. all sourced locally. a tribute to the greek diners where craig grew up eating with his family. steak can be running (inaudible) and see a restaurant in vegas, and here he is in detroit. that's heroic thing. no. this is -- no. this is -- this would be considered foolhardy venture in the chef world. what you've done is counterintuitive. i mean, there is sort of conventional career path for chefs. instead, you decide to go to detroit. then another tribute to classic detroit. potato filled (inaudible) and kielbasa simmered in white wine, thyme and fennel seeds. finished with burr fondue and burr butter pine nuts. followed by locally sourced lamb cooked perfectly. topped with sour cherries, mulberries, toasted pistachios, coriander, and yogurt sauce. in what way does opening a fine dining restaurant in detroit benefit the majority of detroiters? if i were asked the same question, i would say i don't -- you know, i'm doing what i do well. i'm doing it in a place i love and i am demonstrating that yet another person gives a -- about detroit and believes in it enough to be here. what will the detroit of the future look like? whatever you may think it should look like, it will probably taste like this. hey, people, i hope you're enjoying our trip into the greatest city in america, detroit. i am live in las vegas. i got a beer in hand and in 20 minutes, i'll be here with some of my friends, like wendell pierce, marcus samuelson, the hilarious bonnie mcfarlane, and we're going to confer on all the big moments of season two. the ups, the downs, and all the glorious insanity of that tokyo episode. stay tuned. (commercial break) somewhere in this unassuming neighborhood, one can sit down for an excellent meal. but you won't find this place on yelp, and unfortunately, i cannot tell you where it is exactly. why not, you ask? it's not exactly a restaurant, you see, which means it's not, strictly speaking, legal. what is this place? unidentified it's just like home. unidentified this is what's called a pupusa house. literally, a house. this one serving home-cooked salvadorian meals. once a living room, now the main dining area. the woman running it, we can't show her face, but she's been here for 10 years serving a mostly salvadoran clientele, looking for a taste of home. first up a staple done a little differently than the norm. tamales wrapped in banana leaf and steamed. delicious. next the dish of the house, pupusas. tortillas stuffed with ground pork or chicharon. you have pupusas in nicaragua, in guatemala. but for some reason, salvadorian pupusas get the most respect. general consensus seems to be they're the best. how come? unidentified george azar is our detroit fixer. he's been coming here with his friend joe for years. unidentified cortido. unidentified salsa. unidentified what are you saying? unidentified is it a manly thing? unidentified that's true, though. they don't like it. they don't it that spicy. wow. chicharon? yes. this is porky goodness in there, that's for sure. unidentified taking the liberty of ordering some indigenous detroit beverages that we've egregiously overlooked so far. now we (inaudible) which i have -- unidentified i needed this to enhance my street cred in detroit. then i will be welcomed back. then pollo asado. a shrimp and garlic butter. let's shrimp head on, thank you very much. this is where it's at. god lives in there. butter, garlic. simple, delicious. unidentified that's good. unidentified it's like a big hug. how did you find your way here? unidentified yes, but you have annoying foodie web sites, right? unidentified they're not coming here? unidentified there are thousands of foodies with ironic sunglasses and fedoras and they're just weakly get in here. unidentified really? you'd hate a line of people outside waiting -- unidentified two-hour wait to get in here? unidentified i don't want to wait for my plate. who hates money? unidentified what happens when a city goes bankrupt? when it's at the point that it's actually considering selling what's left of itself in chunks. in detroit, city services are reduced or cut out completely. fewer buses, fewer cops, fewer firefighters. answer, they turn to each other for help or figure out how to do it for themselves. detroit has a reputation as a tough town, but that toughness is about resilience, too. the insistence on sticking with it, no matter what. on not giving up in the face of the utter failure of leadership year after year. if the city abandons its parks and leaves them to become overgrown, eaten by so much of the rest of the city by tall grass and weeds, then somebody has got to do something, right? meet the mower gang. started by this guy, tom nardone, with a simple mission of doing what they can to keep detroit's abandoned parks maintained. who are you guys and what are you doing here? unidentified why would you do that? unidentified yes. unidentified how did this thing start? unidentified what does it mean (inaudible) open and close? unidentified they're just going to stop maintaining? unidentified or are they actually physically shut it up? unidentified just physically shut it up. unidentified crazy. unidentified but still a playable park. unidentified all right. well, let's cut some grass. unidentified there's grass in my beer. (laughter) (commercial break) in detroit approximately 40 square miles have been reverted to basically unused green space. in many cities, so-called urban farming may be looked upon by cynics like my as an affectation. here in detroit, it's not. with nature taking back the landscape block by block, the urban farm is really the last line of defense. d- town sits on the western border of detroit. where are we? malik yakini, rouge did you just come in and start digging or did you have permission to come in? was that difficult? malik yakini started the farm with the goal of providing greater access to fresh produce in areas that grocery stores have completely abandoned. that's basically all of detroit's inner city. other than whole foods that just came in. not a single national food chain. this is subsistence farming, not cash crop. you're not going to be -- you're not anticipating selling outside of detroit. to what degree do you think that this model can be replicated in and around the city? who will live in the detroit of the future? there's no question, is there, that detroit will come back? in one form or another, a city this magnificent, this storied, this american cannot, will not ever disappear into the weeds. there are too few places this beautiful for it to be allowed to crumble like ankor or rome. someone will live in a smaller, tighter, no doubt hipper, much contracted new detroit. but who will that be? will it be the people who stuck it out here, who fought block-by-block to keep their city from burning, who struggled to defend their homes, keep up appearances as all around them their neighborhoods emptied. what will detroit look like in 20 years? or 50? that's not just a detroit question. that's an america question. hi. we're live smack in the middle of shooting new episodes but taking a break here at atomic liquors in las vegas to look back at the filth, the fury, the weirdness, and deliciousness of season two. including our disturbing psychoclassic tokyo. we're talking about issues raised and maybe looking forward a bit to what's next. (cheers and applause) (begin videotape) from the crowded multi-layered pinball streets of tokyo. it was the greatest show in the history of entertainment. to the overgrown lots and empty factories of detroit. what the hell happened here? this season has been a wild ride. big game in south africa. small rodents in new mexico. we've got a lot of them in new york. the less and gentle crusting into (inaudible) region by a bull of faith. anthony bourdain, host moody's records, inside rummaging for records just like he used to do is the man, the legend, one of the very select few who started it all. who created the sound that hundreds of millions of people now claim as their own. google, "who created hip hop?" go ahead. you get, d.j. kool herc. (on working on it. was there a moment when you realized, well, this is big, this is going to be -- this is going to spread way beyond my neighborhood? feel good? an evangelist for the cause of introducing the manifold splendiferous delights of this mighty borough to the ignorant, well, like me. he's got a show on the tv, and he throws parties where he serves creatures that would make andrew zimmer turn gray and slump unconscious to the floor. showman, iconoclast, explorer, and gourmet. and he knows what i like. places like this, 188 cuchifritos on 188th street and the grand concourse. old-school new york puerto rican good stuff. get within 20 feet of this place and prepare to lose your freaking mind. so off-cut pig parts, deep fried. what's not to like about that? is that the shank there. oh, yes. so skin. skin and fat? that's amazing. amazing. morcilla, for sure. and then what else? we need some placano (ph). puerto rico, i missed you. this is pretty much the center of the pork universe as i've ever seen it in new york. i don't any place porkier than what i'm looking at. so its bad reputation is what protects it? incredible, incredible spread. i can't lay off this pork. it's insane. i'm actually going to get a to-go order. (commercial break) unidentified first to call himself an emcee, another pioneer, melle mel. in 1982, and he grandmaster flash wrote and recorded "the message," an album that was a complete and ground-breaking departure from the kind of lyrics and content up to that point. melle mel, pioneer in yes, ok, you may be thinking, what about the sugar hill gang, what about them? they were an industry band like the monkees or the archies, built to cash in quick from what was seen as a fad. and they did cash in. (on cool. unidentified that looks good. unidentified that sounds good. yes, there's some neck bones and it. yes, let's do it. unidentified like fofu (ph). same principals. blue fish. awesome, i love blue fish. i didn't know there were hondurans here, much less 200,000 garifuna. no clue. i've been saying the neck is the next big thing for years now. still waiting. (commercial break) unidentified baba rashan abdul hakim, or pops baba (ph) as he's called, a grassroots bush doctor, healer. he uses recipes passed down from mothers and aunties, blends of roots, spices, herbs, barks, and woods. whatever ails, he's got a cure. wood root, cure for the blood, the body, the nerves. portamanti (ph), an intestinal cleanser, and traditional african manback (ph), helps you get your manhood back, among other things. in the yard out back, some freshly roasted jamaican coffee, and this man. a tyrannosaurus rex of music. a man who changed the world for generations, afrika bambaataa. bambaataa and pops go back together to the same housing projects. afrika bambaataa, you were unusually voracious in your musical tastes. of all the records in the world, how did you come upon kraftwerk? up north a ways in west jamaica, another working class community where subway service is pretty limited and yet people to have to get up, go to work, and often make the long hump to another borough. afterwards, a person could use a drink. and if you're a jamaican person, you could use the everyday, go-to drink of back home, any time of day and night, ray and nephew. unidentified right. unidentified jesus is one half of the brilliant podcast team jesus versus kid marrow (ph). it's a very fast, freeform riff diatribe on life in the bronx and what's happening on the news, in hip-hop, or last night. unidentified male; growing up in the bronx you're isolated from the rest of the city. you know what i'm saying? so the other city has like city bite. the bronx doesn't get any of that. we're kind of abandoned up here. people get on a boat and go to staten island before they ride up to the bronx. i've got to reluctantly -- have to be in part of the problem. unidentified thank you. awesome. oh hell, i love this. oh. man, that looks good. people sort of stopped paying attention to the bronx when it wasn't burning anymore. when fort apache was something we didn't have to think about. right. do you remember your first time? unidentified how do you feel, first time, stopped the first time? unidentified i've never been stopped and frisked. unidentified i've been arrested. (laughter) unidentified really? unidentified ok. unidentified that takes some determination now. unidentified i was a crackhead, and oh ... unidentified i mean, correct me if i'm wrong, listen, there's a lot of good food in the bronx. unidentified i mean if the bronx were a neighborhood in manhattan, sort of shrunk down, you'd have hipsters crawling all over. unidentified right. unidentified who lived here in the '50s? unidentified what kind of white people? unidentified yeah. unidentified yeah. that was good move. unidentified the bronx still here. unidentified do you remember the first time you put spray paint on a wall? unidentified when was that? unidentified so, this was the audience that you had in mind? does matter? unidentified other arts. unidentified you were watching each other's work go by? unidentified art lovers. (voice desus (ph) says this place, and desus is always right. bourdain (on been there. so you were here like when, yesterday? unidentified wow. unidentified i noticed all the big catering halls. unidentified that's part of it. unidentified right. unidentified wow. maybe i missed it all my life. this is pretty awesome. unidentified the first european settler to come to the bronx came in 1639. his name was jonas bronck. b, r, o, n, c, k. in 1874, all the area west of the bronx river was annexed to the city and in 1895, all the area east of the bronx river was annexed to the city, and in 1898, the city then decided that the two areas previously annexed should also become a borough. but what to call it since it never had a name before? they looked at the map and right smack to the middle of the territory ran the bronx river, so they named it after the river, the borough of the bronx, and that is why it is called the bronx and not just plain bronx. if you have a question about the bronx, chances are lloyd alton has the answer. born and raised here, he's never really left for over seven decades. this is a disappearing aspect of new york for sure. the real thing jewish deli, liebman's is one of the last. there used to be dozens of places where you can get your brisket, chopped liver, ragu patstramis (ph) or pickles, and the black cherry soda or a souree (ph) of course, to drink. unidentified i remember it well. i remember those few years. things were bad. are things borough-wide, are things getting better? unidentified the bronx academy of letters is something of a cause for me. an institution whose mission i see as absolutely vital. if kids like these kids from a tough neighborhood, often coming from tough family situations, are going to do the things that they're capable of, of having the things they want. i believe that there is no way to realize your dreams if you can't articulate them, if you can't with words convince others to give you the opportunities, the chances you need to grasp. (on what other bronx specialties should i be paying attention to? unidentified that works for you? unidentified that's a classic. that's a new york classic. that's sort of a bodega classic. (laughter) love that. unidentified so, what is - what is chopped cheese? unidentified what is chopped cheese? i have to see. where does this come from? this mutant cheese. (laughter) bourdain (voice right. unidentified i've been everywhere in the world, and i mean just about everywhere in the world that you can think of. as beautiful as many cities around the world are, it's really in your blood, and particularly if you grew up here. you're living in paris, you don't want a chopped cheese sandwich. (laughter) maybe you'll be angry that can't get one. (on sitting right there, relatively unexplored. a cross- section of the tasty, original good stuff. unidentified a petri dish for talent, for culture. the great unknown. go look. unidentified oh, that's good. trying to kill us. they make more than 100 bottles a day so 30,000 bottles. that's a lot of -- did i do that right? or have i had too many whiskeys? how did this happen? how did i get here? (laughter) coming into focus, the man across the table. he looks familiar. maybe if i can remember who he is, it will be a clue as to where i am. unidentified right. andy. andy ricker. the white guy who cooks awesome thai food. andy ricker, thai food the pok pok in portland, restaurants in new york. andy has made a name for himself faithfully reproducing the cuisine of northern thailand. the good stuff comes from places like here. rice country. chiang mai province. in this part of the world, you live and die by the harvest. thai food is intensely regional. in northern thailand in particular, has many distinctive features. this is a world of fresh, delicious, spicy, meaty, salty, sour, sweet, bitter. often with a just-picked herby dimension. and always the most vital thing, giver of life, sticky rice. andy here is constantly back and forth from america to thailand, for nearly 25 years now, looking for recipes, techniques, digging deeper and deeper into an amazingly complex and widely misunderstood cuisine. and getting his ass chastised by a few aunties as he goes. on this trip, andy's working on a new cook book, investigating the eating and drinking culture of the region. which might be why he thought of me and why we're drinking shine for breakfast. where there's food, there's also going to be booze. and likely, a lot of it. oh, yeah. i think it's awesome. now, what's the famous greeting? is it have you eaten yet or have you had rice? it is assumed that if you haven't eaten yet, things are not going well. if you have eaten, rice is such a fundamental component. what makes their whiskey seem special? thai rice whiskey, lao khao, bucket of hooch, whatever you want to call it, this stuff is a delightful beverage that taste better and smoother, apparently, the more you drink. here we go. good stuff. hmm. (speaking a foreign language) this guy's trying to kill us. for your uncle, yes. looking good. all right. will we get healthy, too. the whiskey, i have to say, is taking hold. in some clinically fascinating ways. unidentified oh, that's ok. it all comes back to me as the world shifts and tilts. (laughter) although i'd been looking out a lot of hotel windows these days struggling to figure out where i am, being here, throwing back shots of rice whiskey with these guys, i know i'm back in thailand. (laughter) not just thailand, but northern thailand. once known as kingdom of a million rice fields, it's a fertile, green and gorgeous area, home of the ancient latta people. welcome to chiang mai province, tucked up near the borders of burma, china, laos, india not too far away. all of them have left their mark on the food. and if you're eating here, chances are, you're also drinking. the village of may yon. in this place is called hin tang. how did you find this place? we're in the middle of nowhere. a restaurant showcasing one of the distinguishing elements of northern thai cuisine, the heavy use of animal protein. what did you order? that sounds superb. oh, yeah, i'm on that. yeah. i'm not a big brain fan. a custardy sort of texture, coupled with this sort of nutty taste. frankly, i'd sooner grab a big handful of nut sack, so to speak. raw. what do you mean, they don't cook it? they put it into a hot soup. really. shit juice. oh, geez. oh, no. i did not order that. we're not having that. we're not having that. i'm thinking we'll stick to the plain blood soup, thank you very much. right. you're not kidding. that's like a horror movie. like csi soup. i'm eating out of an open wound. actually, that's completely delicious. utterly delicious. delicious. i'm not lying. this is delicious. anyone would completely love this. huh? whoa, back up there. parasites? you probably should have told me that during the appetizer course, ok? honestly, best food i ever had in thailand, ever. i'd eat it out of (inaudible) jockstrap on a hot summer's day. this is cnn. oh, god. (commercial break) in chiang mai you can move in and out. from the quiet green of the countryside to just a few miles away, the madness and chaos of chiang mai city. second largest in thailand. spirituality, reflection, the serene beauty of the rice paddy, village life. maybe next episode. this time, it's all about consuming medically inadvisable amounts of food and drink. if thailand is one of the best countries to eat in, in chiang mai it's a particularly good city to find yourself hungry. oh, that's the frog. mm. there's almost an inverse relationship, like the more hideous looking the dish, the more delicious it is. as you probably noticed by now, the food here is not pad thai or green curry chicken. there are complex layers of flavor, sophisticated balances, spicy, sour, a little bitter, salty, herby. color and texture are important. crispy, soft, cold, hot. it's exactly this interplay between elements that makes northern thai food so thrilling and so addictive. what is that curry material? you famously said that you hate the word authentic. what does that word mean? this larb is amazing. friday night and chiang mai comes alive. unidentified andy has promised to compressed eating and drinking grand tour of the city. a bounce by tuk-tuk from one place to the other until we simply can't take it no more. next stop, it ain't flavor town. it's some place beyond that, man. way beyond. unidentified on your mark, get set, go. cheers. this may surprise you, but i am not an alcoholic. i don't drink at home ever. there's no beer in my fridge. if i'm not working, i'm not hanging out in bars. but if i was an alcoholic, and i did hang in bars, i would hang here. even though the very mention of karaoke makes my blood run cold with fear. (singing in a foreign language) you had the french fries? apparently it's indigenous specialty. what is the whiskey we're drinking, by the way? i really haven't paid attention. this guy's good. that could be me some day, i'm thinking. things go just a little wrong, i go off the rails, this would be all too attractive. i could well see myself singing happy birthday in german to tourists at a hotel bar in jakarta or bangkok. i enjoy my time quite, this is a fantastic discovery. this is gonna stick in my head now, this song. (commercial break) chiang mai at night. we are well on our way. to where, to what, i don't know, i don't much care. but i do know it's time to eat. in thailand it's almost always a time to eat. yes, and drink. we shall be doing that, too. beer, you say? oh, all right. in the interest of research, of course. snackage? yes, i would like snacks. oh, tastes like medicine. when did you come to thailand first? oh, man. so, what was the dish? a dish in every traveler's life where they just said ok, my previous life is not gonna be enough for me anymore, you know? when i first came out to this part of the world, noodles. i mean, i knew right then. i mean, i'm not joking. it wasn't the girls, it wasn't the beaches. the noodles, the greasy bottle of fish sauce and the smell. there's this terrible moment where you realize i can't share this. that's it. the lady with the hat stands out among the dozens of street vendors across from the old city's north gate. yeah, are we going? are we doing that? for years, she's been serving this. khao kha moo slowly stewed pork. like sherry, there's a little bit of the original batch still in there. just hacking dead (ph) meat all day and there's like not a drop on the frilly... that's really tasty. let's do it. no. all right. let's go, guys. i need to stop at a sports bar. i need to have some chicken wings. i need to have some like fried mozzarella sticks. i need to go to a gun range, more beer, more food. what was i saying? oh, yes. beer loves crispy. beer loves salty. beer loves fatty. spicy, salty, fried, together? happiness. ok. what are they drinking? clear, kidney cleaning water. so, good, and so important to a healthy lifestyle. i would imagine. midnight nam prik num that's what you do after you've had a few drinks -- maybe a lot of drinks, meaning a lot of drinks, because what you need, maybe you didn't know you need it but you do, is nam prik, thai chili dip. we get two kinds. nam prik tua daeng. and this. create from roasted green chillies, accompanied by god's preferred delivery systems for beer-friendly goodness. a whole bunch of deep-fried little salty meaty delicious things, yes, please. yes. and something i loved from the first mouthful i ever had right here in chiang mai all those years ago, thai pork sausage. i love it. i want to rub it all over my body. this sauce is just so amazing. somehow the thing you need right now. this is totally the thing i need right now. oh, that's so good. (commercial break) ok, come to me, my love, right now, you big nasty unfamiliar semi-cooked egg. oh, that's so good. i once wrote your body isn't a temple, it's an amusement park. enjoy the ride. but that was before i had a daughter and a respectable job at cnn. so, when that little voice in my head, said call it a night, quit while you're ahead, i probably should have listened. wait, where did we leave off? ah, yes, now i remember. bouncing to one bar after another. that way. andy and i have clearly tuk-tuked our way well beyond the threshold of acceptable conduct. but we call it a night, quit while we're ahead? no. let's do that. all right. here it is. lady boys, as they're known in thailand, have led to many an embarrassing moment for the amorous cowboy too buzzed to notice or care much about the details. right. many of the lady boys frankly are pretty spectacular looking, especially the ones who have breasts. absolutely. actually, that's a brilliant idea. a lady boy show in a sports bar. you can watch football, drink a lot of beer and around beer number eight, bring out the lady boys. just my luck. at a show like this, what happens? like she says. i end up kissing the one lady boy in thailand who looks like ernest borgnine straight on the lips. of course, i am completely oblivious to the day- glow white lipstick all over my face. out of context photos of me here tonight end up on the internet. this could look bad. watch the show. oh, yeah. totally going home alone, by the way. just want to make sure that's established to the company. in spite of all evidence to the contrary. (commercial break) snacks. let's go eat. this train has long ago come off the rails. one bar after another. it's time andy and i head to an appropriate follow-up to a night like we've had. more food, quickly, this has become an emergency situation. there it is. drunken noodles dude. how can it be drunken noodles with no noodles? this is what we need, whatever it is. that's us. something to sop up the roiling tide of (inaudible) sloshing around in my stomach, and i need to sober up in case ernest borgnine calls. she said she'd call. i feel so used. unidentified yeah. yeah. you know when you have been really hit by super hot and you feel like having a brain hemorrhage? it's like an ice cream headache but like a pepper headache. you're halfway through and you're aware that your hair has just burst into flames. that perfect balance of pain and pleasure and more pain, brain flooding with endorphins and all is well with the world, until tomorrow morning. so, i've had a couple cocktails. maybe we should like totally get a tattoo tomorrow, man. time for bed. so, i woke up in a state of confusion and deep concern after inadvertently making out with ernest borgnine last night. i have spiraled into some identity crisis. inadvertently making out with ernest borgnine, i would like to say. it was very dramatic. i need to go to a strip club and watch a football game, mow the lawn and barbecue all at the same time. i hope some of you moved on. i don't mean that in a figurative way. i can't talk. it hurts to talk. get out. every region has sort of an iconic dish. they're talking the word of thailand, chiang mai. this is it, hearty broth of curry, coconut, noodles and spices. i'm all over that. oh, yeah. mm. needs some more onions. the boys at the bar tonight are going to be in for a surprise if they move in for a smooch. damn, that's good. i am a big believer in a healthy nutritious breakfast. it's the most important meal of the day. my doctor said that. of course, he also said that just about everything i love and hold dear is killing me, so what does he know. attention, hippies. this is a salad. clean papaya salad, that's not really a local thing. it's a piece of something but i couldn't resist. spicy papaya salad, some (inaudible) i got to find a catholic church. bless me, father, for i have sinned. i kissed a man on the mouth. oh, it burns like the fires of hell. burn away sin. burn away. (commercial break) ok. last mealtime, last lap, stagger across the finish line. andy's favorite spot in chiang mai. a family-run restaurant named auntie deng's hammered meat, and the jokes pretty much write themselves, folks. unidentified no, every year, every year. andy has been coming here forever since it was only auntie deng's slightly slapped meat. he is practically family. unidentified hammered meat here anyways, beef or pork has been charcoaled grill and pulverized in rope beef thread (ph) and then given a distinct texture and served with spicy chili in galongo (ph) dip. unidentified this woman has expectations, dude. it is pretty obvious. what if they didn't pound it before they cook? classic. mm. that's good. and because andy is a vip and potential future son-in-law, dad is sporting his 40 amulets with protection, brings out the chef's special, a bitter soup with buffalo tendon (inaudible). that doesn't sound good. oh, that is addictive right away. yeah. you know, we talked about once you experience some of the sensory pleasures of the east, your previous life just isn't adequate anymore. when the journey is coming to an end, when the movie is over, what's left to do? oh, yes, wrap things up. i think, we've learn something here today in chiang mai, i can't summon what it is might be right now, you know, i was thinking of what muhammad just said, you know, don't tell me what a man knows on what he says, tell where he is trapped, you will learn stuff. maybe it is to remember to bring something to remove makeup before hitting the cabarets. or maybe just say screw it, and have a good time. it is quite beautiful. thank you so much. unidentified any sort of city ordinance that you have to shovel or -- they're not penalized financially? unidentified any injuries in the line of duty? unidentified what is the most perilous aspect of the job? would it be dogs or icy stairs? (laughter) unidentified the cold? like many of their ilk, they seek one of the temporary small towns of sled-born cabins, drill a hole in the ice, and wait. but these are not normal men. (on i mean, come on. you can't think about that long. now wait a minute. now are strippers paid hourly here? is that right? it's not a tip system? (laughter) you consider it a performance art. so how does that work? you don't -- (crosstalk) you pay per song. yes. well, this is the interesting paradox of you guys. you aspire to -- to run a democratic establishment, and yet you are hopeless romantics when it comes to -- the art of living. right? what the -- really? come prepared with anecdotes? no elbows on the table? i'm a total failure as a dining companion. what is that? you are hopeless, hopeless romantics, gentlemen. oh, jesus. look at that. oh. yes, yes, it is. really, is there a -- is there billionaire or a despot anywhere out on earth who at this precise moment is eating better than us? no. look at that. wait a minute, you guys have a much more relaxed attitude towards the importation of cuban cigars. right. no way. tell me all about it. he's a dandy. right. right. (crosstalk) right. and how many people are in your family at this meal? and how old are the kids? so you, your wife and a 2-year-old and a 4-year-old. and i'm thinking this, and i'm think, well, that's really tough, but i'm also thinking, you know, i've got to do that. i want to do that. and actually my daughter would totally be into it. (commercial break) bourdain they eat the bark? i understand in pioneer days, beaver was the financial engine of canada? empires were built on it. every hat practically in the world was made of a beaver pelt. what would you compare the meat to? is there anything like it. wow. it's absolutely delicious. it tastes like chicken. (laughter) no, it doesn't take like chicken at all. yes. yes, at this point, you know animals, they see me and they're like oh -- (laughter) yes. not that guy. (on does everyone in quebec, it's pretty much obligatory? here's your stick, kid. right. and this young one is already being indoctrinated. hello, young man. wow. am i going to get, like, a mouth full of puck, by the way? hot coco in styrofoam cups? no, try a titanic chucrute garni ala (inaudible), containing flintstone-sized hunks of pork belly, (inaudible), bacon, homemade boudin blanc, kielbasa, smoked chops, plus veal and pork links. (on this dish is the single best argument for sharing a border with germany. i'm not sure about dave mcmillan, but in fred morin's perfect world, we would all travel by rail. it would still be the golden age of rail travel. (on really? of this model train. so you have other operating manuals? for those halcyon days of cross-country rail, there were lavish dining cars, luxurious sleeping compartments, a bar car with liveried attendants. right. it goes back to service, doesn't it? thank you. as a gentleman must. hold on. wait a minute. i've got to get a inaction photograph. hold on. canadian rail. people are going to be expecting, wait a minute, where is my fist-sized truffle? (laughter) oh, of course. don't forget the foie. classic, unironic, cuisine (inaudible), meaning dishes you haven't seen since like forever. a hipster-free zone of french, continental, ocean liner classics such as caesar salad, tossed fresh to (inaudible) tableside and beef tartare, also prepared tableside as one must. shrimp cocktail, not a deconstructed shrimp cocktail mind you, a shrimp cocktail, the way jesus wants you to eat them. all served by a dedicated professional. (on yes. merci. man, i love this place. i'm so happy. it's very comfortable. there's continuity in this world. look at this tiny electric four-burner stove. at no point in my cooking career could i have worked with one of these without murdering everyone in the vicinity before hanging myself from the nearest beam. (on i do not think it's preposterous. but here we have a situation. the anglo canadians treated french-speaking quebecois like second-class crap for much of history. so i get it. i'd be pissed, too. i want my own thing and when i got it, i'd wake to make sure there's no backsliding to the bad old days. -- predominantly french in montreal? no doubt about it. right. close. yes. and do you think it will ever happen in the history of the world? and it was tradition does this fall? unidentified this doesn't seem like the fasters road to untold wealth. you celebrate canadian history, you celebrate canadian traditions, you celebrate canadian ingredients in a way that no one else has. are you some kind of patriot? is that what's going on here? is it national quebecois fervor? (crosstalk) not with a hammer. with love. yes, black truffles. (on and now the main course, a homegrown smoked right out front local ham with pineapple and green beans almondine. and chicken, but with martin the chicken is never just chicken. good god. first course. look at that. unbelievable. look at the aspic work. but wait a minute, this is super classic. we did good work here. there's nothing like the north atlantic. it's majestic. i love the beach. pretty much had my first everything on a beach. you name it, first time i did it, beach. i was miserable in love, happy in love, alternately, as only a 17-year-old could be. this is where i lived. very happy summer in the early '70s, and that was my room on the left. it's an amazing spot if you think about it, a bunch of knuckleheads working as dishwashers, waiters, pizza servers. we could work on a beach like this. you know, happier, stupider times. you know, i can still hear the play list, strawberry letter and the brothers johnson. if you put on marvin gaye right now, i'd burst into tears. what do you do? you're young, you go to the beach, you know, you get laid, and you get high. it was here, all the way out at the tip of cape cod, provincetown, massachusetts, where the pilgrims first landed. and it was where i first landed. 1972, washed in a town with a headful of orange sunshine and a few friends. provincetown, a wonderland of tolerance, long time tradition of accepting artists, writers, the badly behaved, the gay, the different. it was paradise. the joy that can only come with an absolute certainty that you're invincible, that none of the choices that you make will have any repercussions or any effect on your later life. we didn't think about those things. i don't even know what i thought i was going to be. at that point, i certainly didn't think i was going to be a cook. i don't know what i thought i was going to be. i was just, you know, hanging out in a beautiful place. a golden time. i look back on those fuzzy memories, and they seem golden anyway. oh, there's john waters. first love. and there's me. this guy, johnny yingling, was sort of a sinful figure in all of our lives. john yingling, spiritus and you let me sleep on top of the walk-in. at spiritus. i cannot tell you how frequently i dream about spiritus pizza. i'm walking down commercial street, and i'm sort of dimly aware that spiritus has moved, and there's a sense of dislocation and a loss as i stumble around this sort of provincetown dreamscape of 40 years ago. i was still here and living in hope. unbelievable. many of the old places in p-town are gone. but the lobster pot is still going strong, all these years later, and still has what i want and need. the essentials. my friends worked in the kitchen here, starting the tradition among my set that cooking work was noble toil. at that point, i never intended a career as a chef. i was getting to that. yes. unidentified it's been a long time, thank you. unidentified portuguese soup, a p-town version of the azorean caldo verde, and just what i remembered. kale, fiery red chorizo, linguica, kidney beans, potatoes. oh, i missed you. i missed you bad. and that was precisely what i loved about the food here. the portuguese thing, dishes like this stuffed cod crusted with ground portuguese sausage, bread crumbs, stuffed with scallop and crab. some sherry, red sauce. i hadn't been working for a while, i was a deadbeat. i was just scarfing off everybody else. and nancy poole (ph) comes home from work and says, our dishwasher didn't show up today. you are our new dishwasher. and i said, oh, really? and the next day i put on the apron and i didn't take it off for 30 years. i'd wake up, all of us would go to the beach, hang out on the beach until like roll into work. work all night. drinking, getting high, drilling out food. you have got all the food you wanted, all the liquor you wanted? all the sex you wanted. and yet it was still an essential part of the economy. the flagship, it's where my cooking career started. where i started washing dishes, where i started have pretensions of culinary grandeur. it would seem like a good gig for anybody. who else got to live like that during that time? you had to sort of be in a band, here we were, we were dishwashers. otherwise, we still wouldn't be here. well, you know, many of our friends from those days didn't make it. keep drinking, keep drinking. thank you. unidentified this place has been here forever. that used to be the back room. see, it's all falling into place again. it's early spring now, but come memorial day, it gets crazy around here, and doesn't stop until labor day. provincetown was always gay-friendly, in my time and way, way before my time. and this place, the atlantic house, known always and forever by locals and visitors alike as the a house, is america's oldest operating gay bar. everybody has come through these doors, so to speak. most notably, naked and frolicking tennessee williams. (crosstalk) unidentified april cabral (ph) owns the joint now, taking over for her father, the legendary reggie cabral, a forward-thinking dude if there ever was one. unidentified how long in the family? in your family? unidentified how has town changed? has it changed? unidentified okay, 1972, my feeling was that this was a gay town, and that i was here at the pleasure of, you know, somebody else, which is sort of the opposite of everywhere outside of here at that time. unidentified this was a largely catholic, portuguese, conservative fishing community, but it was also known as hell town. right. anyone who had a lifestyle outside the mainstream was welcome here pretty much. over a century ago, provincetown was a hard working fishing village with multigenerational families of fishermen. unidentified the first portuguese fishermen arrived here in 1840. the main families created a community built around fishing, and this town lived off that industry well into the 20th century. it persisted even when i was here, keeping up old catholic fishing traditions like the blessing of the fleet. these days, however, there are fewer and fewer boats to bless. unidentified good time to be here, and nice weather today. unidentified i'm sure i'll be fine, i've watched "the deadliest catch." so. unidentified i'm ready. unidentified is there a limited number of stuff out there? unidentified and the payout ain't much. do the math, a good day of scalloping brings in, say, 9,000 bucks. from that 9,000, take away 3,000 for the lease, 1,000 for fuel, and split the remainder amongst the crew. and on top of that, fishing is really just a crap shoot. many days, there's simply nothing to catch. why the [ bleep ] are you doing this? unidentified like i said, it ain't easy. today, according to bo, scott, and zeb, this was just a little breeze. how rough does it have to be when you look out and say i'm not going out today? unidentified really? unidentified what? unidentified yep. unidentified this place was -- has been here forever when i rolled into town. how long has that place been open? unidentified yes, how long do i have to drink here to get my face up there? 40 years? unidentified back when i worked in town for fishermen, there was the folksel (ph), cookie's tap room (ph), and this place. the old colony. of the three, it's the only one left. unidentified oh, wait a minute, i recognize these. you guys eat scallops? unidentified as brawny, hard working men of the sea, we deserve these beers, these finest of all oysters, the wellfleets. unidentified these are fantastic. wow, what a treat. is there going to be a next generation of fishermen in the family? what happens after you guys? unidentified all right. thank you, guys. unidentified this is going to end badly. unidentified this is a nice house. man, it just feels like i never left in a lot of ways. but it was 40 years later almost. that was the sodom and gomorra by the sea over there, you know, a big candy store for horny, stupid, 17-year-olds with a taste for chemicals. you know, i was an angry young man. what the hell was so i angry about? it came as a rude surprise to me when i turned 30 because i always sort of figured i'd be dead by then. i was still quite some time away from my first bag of heroin, but, you know, in a lot of ways, it was a foregone conclusion. my whole life was sort of leading up to that point. to my first bag of dope. (commercial break) i left provincetown with restaurant experience, a suntan, and an ever deepening relationship with recreational drugs. i went to culinary school, then to new york city, and never returned. today, however, i'm staying in massachusetts, heading over to the western part of the state, one of the most beautiful areas of the country. the gorgeous mill towns, victorian houses, deeply felt famously upright new england values, norman rockwell america, where something really inexplicable and unexpected has happened. unidentified not new york or baltimore or l.a. or chicago, but rural towns like this one are now statistically ground zero for the heroin epidemic. what the hell happened? unidentified so, sonny crockett gets a ferrari. what's wrong with this picture? unidentified it's been reported in the national papers there's been an explosion of heroin use, heroin-related crimes, overdoses. how does that happen? unidentified so 60 to 80 bucks for ten. unidentified one dose per for most people? unidentified how many heroin addicts you think are walking the streets of greenfield right now? unidentified wow. unidentified high hundreds. unidentified we don't have crips and bloods taking over motel rooms. the person selling you dope more likely to be familiar than a stranger? unidentified we meet carmen, as we'll call her, a powerful local heroin dealer turned paid confidential police informant, out in the woods. how'd you get into the business initially? how easy was it to get into the dope business? was there money in it? it's like mayberry out here from looking around. who's using heroin now? i mean -- kids. today's heroin epidemic is different than the one that raged through america in the 1970s, in a few significant ways. back then, heroin was mostly seen as a poor people problem, somebody else's problem. the sort of thing that musicians and criminals got into, marginal people, far from the white main streets of mayberry, usa. what those people did to themselves, well, it was unfortunate, but not our problem. until somebody broke into your house. today, it's absolutely the reverse. the new addicts are almost entirely white, middle class, and from towns and areas like this. how do you think you make it better? whoa. you don't? how many customers do you have? what happened? how did the kid next door, along with mom, pop, and grandma too, become users of hard-core illegal narcotic drugs, the worst drug, with the worst reputation? well, maybe start here. unidentified here's a 1996 promotional video from the fine folks at purdue pharmaceuticals. sent around to doctors, it encouraged them to prescribe the latest, newest, more wonderful drug for long-term pain management, oxycontin. unidentified sales of oxycontin -- initially and falsely proclaimed as not addictive -- absolutely skyrocketed, from $45 million in 1996 to $3.1 billion in 2010. that same year, purdue tweaked the way they were making oxy in an attempt to, they said, limit its addictive qualities. finally, the government and law enforcement took a harsh look at the drug, and it became much harder to get legally, which sucked for the thousands and thousands who by now had a serious habit. unidentified in downtown greenfield, the people's pint, an ecoconscious, local locavorian pub that brews its own beer, uses only farm fresh ingredients, and composts its leftovers. it's where i meet up with dr. putie for dinner. i guess my first question is, who's doing dope? unidentified everybody. unidentified is it big pharma's fault? is it doctors' fault? who's fault is it? who made a mistake here? unidentified a few miles down the road from greenfield is shellburn falls. the good old days that everyone used to talk about back when i was a kid. sundays, church and picnics. saturday nights, sox games, beer, and bowling. the shellburn falls bowling alley is where time seems anyway to have stopped. first opened in 1906, this is the second oldest bowling alley in america. dedicated to old school new england-style candle pin bowling. the holy rollers, the crowd of septuagenarians who grew up in shellburn and plan -- and this is a reasonable expectation -- to kick my ass. they've been playing here since the '50s. unidentified really, this was the den of inequity? unidentified man, it's a tiny little ball. this looks really hard. unidentified yes, it used to be a very different world, towns like this one. and there were many. but like everywhere else, it seems the mills, the factories closed down, and with them a certain kind of social contract with the people who worked there. ed back then, a company town like this, the company actually took care of you. they built and provided homes for their employees. schools. the river provided energy. the company provided nearly everything else. attracted by the manufacturing here. so you could work in a mill and live in a nice home, send your kids to school, make a living, all on a mill salary. it's unthinkable now almost. what happened to the business? this town became redundant? again and again all over the country, i keep running into situations like this. where industry has died or fled or simply relocated. i meet people like charles garbel (ph), hometown heroes who for some reason -- though they could probably go anywhere -- take their skills and return to where they grew up. shady glenn diner. today's special, a tribute to the old european immigrant culture of the area, the new england boiled dinner. so i hear rumors of corned beef and cabbage, is that right? unidentified slowly cooked corned beef, boiled potatoes, steamed cabbage. that's a beast, awesome, thank you. how long have you been here? unidentified are you from the area? unidentified generally speaking, who are your customers? unidentified and this, you don't see so much anymore. homemade pies and lots of them. all baked on premises. raspberry cream pie for me, thank you. this is not something we see a lot of. old school pie like that, and this number of them? unidentified just exotic for me. unidentified oh, yes. how's business? unidentified i think what you're doing here is terrific. a man can go and get a good pot open turkey sandwich and a good slice of pie, it's a beautiful thing. (commercial break) unidentified so is this the bad part of town or is this just a place where you're unlikely for people to find you? unidentified what would you do? would you just come here to shoot up? unidentified so basically you'd come down here, shoot up, and what are you going to nod out? just sit down -- unidentified not exactly la vida loca. unidentified really? unidentified what do you think now when you see somebody who's clearly junk sick on the street? unidentified uh-huh. unidentified now in most cases, as i understand it, they're right out of it. unidentified they don't wake up happy. but they wake up. unidentified (inaudible) you walk to the bathroom and there's somebody's blue there. unidentified are you saving that life? unidentified better now? life better now? unidentified where are we headed? unidentified oh, okay. unidentified started nearly a decade ago in one of the two main streets of greenfield, the recover project is community-based. an open arms program aimed at helping addicts stay clean. unidentified i'll tell you something really shameful about myself. the first time i shot up, i looked at myself in the mirror with a big grin. you know, something was missing in me, whether it was a self- image situation, whether it was a character flaw. i came from a stable family, the suburbs, you know, i had a lot of advantages. there was some dark genie inside me that i very much hesitate to call a disease, that led me to dope. you know, i didn't have anyone else who could have talked me out of what i was doing, but intervention wouldn't have worked. i didn't have a child. i have a 7-year-old daughter now, who i never would have had. i never would have thought -- i looked in a mirror and i saw somebody worth saving, or that i wanted to at least try real hard and save. you know, anybody can find themself very easily in this situation, and, you know, i look back on that and i think about what i'll tell my daughter, you know. you know, that was daddy. ain't no doubt about it, but i hope i'll be able to say that was daddy then, this is daddy now, that i'm alive and living in hope. thank you, guys. (applause) (commercial break) in massachusetts, the clambake is a ritual going back to the flintstones, before the pilgrims. today at the long-standing locals only shooting club, shootsenverrin (ph) as it's called in german for the immigrants who fist started this rustic fraternity back in 1912. club leader ray zurkowski (ph) takes me through the fascinating and arcane process of creating an old-school clambake. unidentified we've got a pig hiding in there also. unidentified let's eat. unidentified first some good chowder, and there really is only one kind of chowder, new england clam chowder. mm-mm. that is good. steamer clams, lobster, corn, potatoes. it's a pretty luxurious clambake you got going here. unidentified everybody in this room has been touched by or impacted by narcotics in some way. the franklin county opioid safety task force is a grassroots response. doctors, law enforcement, led by franklin county sheriff chris donelan, addiction specialists and addicts themselves are coming together to find a community-based solution to what is finally being recognized as a public health crisis rather than simply a criminal justice problem. unidentified again, it's a change. the city is the place where all of the bad stuff was supposed to happen, it wasn't supposed to be in nice towns like greenfield. right? unidentified once you've been busted for heroin, that's a hard thing to live down. unidentified let's start by being honest with ourselves. as a nation, for decades, we were perfectly happy to write off whole neighborhoods, whole cities, whole generations of young men and women. as long as it was an inner city problem, an urban problem, which is to say a black people problem, a brown people problem. send them to prison into a system from which they'll never return. maybe now, now that it's really come home to roost, now that it's the high school quarterback, your next-door neighbor, your son, your daughter, now that grandma is as likely to be a junkie as anyone else, we'll accept that there has never been a real war on drugs. war on drugs implies an us versus them, and all over this part of america, people are learning there is no them. there is only us. and we're going to have to figure this out together. anthony bourdain, if you love in manhattan like i do and you think you live in the center of the world, this place, shanghai, will confront you with a very different reality. turn down a side street, it's an ancient culture. a century's old mix of culinary traditions, smells, flavors. a block away, this. an ultra-modern, ever clanging cash register, levels of wealth, of luxury, a sheer volume of things and services unimagined by the greediest most bushwa of capitalist imperialist. the city is split by the huanpu river, a tributary of yangtze. in the older section which appears the bund and a newer built-up section, the pudong. the one thing i know for sure about china is i will never know china. it's too big, too old, too diverse, too deep. there's simply not enough time. that's for me the joy of china, facing a learning curve that impossibly steep. the certain knowledge that even if i dedicated my life to learning about china, i die mostly ignorant. that's exciting, it's too much and it's changing so fast. china has a population of around 1.2 billion people, and the number of them who were joining an explosive middle class, demanding their share of all that good stuff, infrastructure, the clothes, the cars, the gas to fuel them, his wealth, it's the engine that might well drive the whole world. zhou very much, yes. zhou of course, yes some -- dumplings. zhou professor zhou lin is an economist and current dean of the college of economics and management at shanghai jiao tong university. i saw many people who live here who's chinese but was educated in american universities. has had taught at yale, duke, and arizona state. so you -- forgive me. economics are not my area of expertise, i wallow in ignorance but china looks different every time i come. it's changing so, so, so quickly. how did that happen? zhou right. zhou there's certainly no doubt that at this point, we -- our destinies are inextricably bound up. we are hopelessly -- our economies are hopelessly intermingled. if one fails, the effect would be disastrous. zhou we are -- to say the least. zhou right. zhou right. zhou right. zhou oh that's -- it's fantastic. unidentified no, i'm very happy. bourdain that was... minji oh they're good. minji it was a communist country, supposedly. it is in fact from real (ph) evidence that i've ever seen, the most dynamic country on earth. what do you think about that? minji from what i see everywhere i go, the world is becoming more chinese. chinese influence, chinese food. if you've build a casino in vegas or a hotel in singapore, you have to consider what will the chinese think. is that exciting? minji for me, i think, you know, the communist menace that we use to always talk about in america, i think the most terrifying scenario is that china becomes a completely free market, non-socialist, non- communist society, because you'd bury us. (commercial break) bourdain france, fantastic. wow, they were in good shape. tse yes, yes. it was good. tse we treat them happy. every single one is flying from jet with (inaudible) belt so they were nice and happy and safe/ apparently. (voice-over) tim is an investor into real estate, telecoms, and the newly expanding service industries of the new china. he's also the president of roosevelt china investments, a very old company with a long history doing business here, created by the roosevelt family, maybe you've heard of them. this is his clubhouse, really. the house of roosevelt on the bund, right in the middle of it all. wine is big here now, the french chateaus, more and more they looked at china as the indicators of price, as the market maker. tim alone stocked around 4,000 labels here. china in general bought 2 billion bottles of red wine last year alone. think about that for a minute, they are now the leading market for red wine in the world. (on look so good. ice? well, this is nice. isn't this supposed to be communist china? i mean it seems like it was very... no, no, i'm kidding. i'm a bit of a red diaper baby but -- what i mean to say is it just seems that the realm of the possible here is very big. daniel jang in time. i grew up in the 50's and the 60's and even then, chinese restaurant, chinese food was really an essential part of being a new yorker, i mean if you didn't know how to use chopsticks as a new yorker, you are a terrible new yorker. it's a tough accent. queens is easier, you know, it's a more of a -- i can't, i mean, i lived right next to it my whole life. what i mean the accent. a brooklyn expression. not for nothing. not for nothing. not for nothing. not for nothing, but, you know, i can really use a little more wine. not for nothing, not at all. not for nothing not for -- all right. what is it? wow. this is the house collection. right. wow, cool. it's good being me. thank you. thank you so much. we will close that up now, wait a minute. what are the most popular american shows in china? house of cards. house of cards. that's really interesting. why do you think you appeal (ph) this year? right. wow. that's really... (off-mike) ... a surprise to me. wow, these are huge. good. right. are there enough jobs for everybody? right. right. right. now? right. right. it looks to me, chinese in general, shanghai is particular is changing very, very fast (ph). every time i come it's different. and in your reason, i mean last 10 years, what the most noticeable change to you? right. right, right. they're communicating with everybody else in the world about who's at the table. it didn't happened until you twitted it as we say. right. legally, there might be something one is it, but morally, you think there's anything wrong with like, but you're essentially breaking into an information based. i'm not doing anything. but i want to go in, i'm going to look around, i'm going to see how things work and i'll leave without disturbing anything. with most hackers, say that's ok. it's in the service of knowledge that's... started in this (inaudible) this 21. great (inaudible). you didn't go to college? why not? why? you're -- the country is so advanced in so many other ways. why in this area? right. because everyone is going to silicon valley. right. are these the famous ribs? yes? no, you're not loving that? to me -- and i've eaten a lot of food, but this is spicy, fresh, great, vibrant. so, are you a foodie? were you born here, you're from shanghai? at least in modern times, it's hard to imagine that any place has changed as profoundly and is changing as quickly as it is changing here. with a poll of 85 percent of chinese who are asked the question, "do you feel that your life will be better next year," 85 percent said, "yes, it will be better next year." this is an extraordinary-- number. i don't know a lot of other countries that would say that. well, that looks great. the famous-- chicken. it's so good. you know, i'm finding this food really, really delicious. and you're saying it's just-- i'm finding it wow. yeah. (commercial break) bourdain are you married? no, not yet. you've been to weddings, yes? have you ever crashed a wedding before? really? well. really? so, ready to crash a wedding? all right. yeah. -- and seriously. i'm just wondering how you got out of that. when i sat down and i looked around the table and i find that, "ok, who at this table is going to try really hard to get me drunk," i wouldn't have guessed it was going to be her. look, we have to get this straight. that is not wine. that's like grain alcohol. that's what we call liquor. ok, at least we're clear on that. morning in yangon, to nearly everyone's surprise, there have been some huge changes in recent months. aung san suu kyi, human rights nobel prize-winning democracy champion, aung san suu kyi, for nearly 15 years under house arrest, was released, and is now taking an active part in politics. just as the the doors are opening, my crew and i are among the first to record what has been unseen for decades by most of the world. meanwhile, this southeast asian country of 80 million people is collectively holding its breath, waiting to see what's next, and will this loosening of government grip last? of course, morning in yangon has always been about tea. it's black indian-style tea, usually with a thick dollop of sweetened condensed milk. you want it sweet, less sweet, very sweet? strong? less strong? everybody's got a preference, everybody's got a preferred tea shop, where they know presumably how you like yours. thiha saw, journalist and publisher thiha saw, we meet at the seit taing kya tea shop. for 50 years of paranoia and repression, teahouses were also the main forum for guarded and not-so guarded discussions of the daily news, where you tried to piece together the real stories behind the ludicrously chopped and censored newspapers. but carefully, of course, because informers and secret police were also heavily represented in these hotbeds of sedition and discontent. (on really? how long? two times. right. right. that doesn't sound good. magazines that would come into the country would -- they'd cut, literally cut out the pieces? right. well, something you were accused of, sending secret messages? yes. sprinkle some in here. good textures. particularly in the light of obama's recent visit, these are interesting times. significant changes for the first time in 50 years. right. feel good? i love the answer. it's a careful yes. this is ma thanegi, a famous and very controversial figure in public life. (on but her many well-known books on the culinary traditions of myanmar make her a compelling advocate for burmese cuisine. (on it was pig head salad with kaffir lime leaf, long beans salad with sesame and fish sauce. penny leaf salad, even this salad of indian-style samosa. (on no first court or second course? ma right. ma and it's really about the interaction between a lot of colors, textures and flavors in one dish or -- ma different. ma wow, i'm in love. that's good. ma anything goes. ma it figures, doesn't it? yes. it makes perfect sense then that over cold brew and chicken necks in the port of yangon, philip is the one joining me to explore this particular moment in myanmar. full moon party tonight. (crosstalk) what's that means, we have no idea. it gets crazy from now on. i'll tell you, it's the backbone of every street fair in the world, isn't it? deep fried food. anytime you tell me crispy little bird, i'm all over it. good beak. oh, and they have rides. an absolutely insanely dangerous closely choreographed process of first getting the the giant heavily laden wheel in motion and then getting it up to top speed and keeping it there. (on oh, yes. it's fantastic. zarni for almost six years? zarni right. zarni what is life like inside prison? zarni i have a hard time believing that. zarni access to books? zarni right. zarni how is the food? zarni the food in prison? zarni so there is hope for this country, in your view. yes? zarni meet burmese punk rockers side effect, and lead singer darko. pork tail. yes. this is barbecue is awesome. yes. they are like the worst band in the history of, like, the world. so what's it like having an indie band in myanmar? difficult? that must be funny. now is that still the case? so let me ask this. if all your dreams came true, where would you want to play? you want to go to new york city? i hope people reach out to you. because making roll and roll is hard enough. a truly independent rock and roll is even harder. and i'm guessing that making it here is harder still. so, gentlemen, you deserve some success. people should hear you. no, we lost the dining car, i hear. we've been told it's a somewhat uncomfortable 10-hour trip. (on yes. all aboard. whoa. we're moving. here we go. really? this is cruising speed? we can literally outrun this thing. we could catch up with it. derailments or rail splits, as they are referred to here, is somewhat more benign sounding occurrence that say rolling off the tracks into a rice paddy, are not uncommon. and one can't help wondering what the engineer and conductor are thinking as the train speeds heedlessly on faster and faster. you don't want to be, like, holding a lab dog. what's in yours? potato. a thousand years ago bagan was the capital for a long line of burma kings. it's the sort of place where the old coexists with the even older. as elsewhere in this part of the world, in many of the buddhist temples here far older animist, spirit-based beliefs coexist with more recent buddhism. and in myanmar, worship of the gnats is wide spread. nat, as i understand it, are more like greek gods, formed as humans, demigods, spirits, often with very human qualities and failings. dance performances pay homage to the individual nats, performers claiming to actually channel them, bringing about, one hopes, a beneficial spiritual possession. but i'm not just here for a nat pue (ph). i have a list. things to eat in myanmar. and this is one of them. chicken curry. and from roadside joints like this nestled among the temple ruins, you're more than likely to catch a very enticing whiff. (on you'll encounter some western travelers at bagan's temple sites for sure, but generally speaking they are a hardy bunch. even the bus tours here are not for the feint of heart or weak of spirit. but for the most part you're far more likely to bump into a goat than a foreigner. i'm thinking you build these many temples, thousands of them in a relatively short period of time, chances are, somebody was working for less than minimum wage, let's put it that way. it's going to mean mobility, it's going to mean prosperity for some. it will mean a lot of bad things, too. it will mean prostitution. it will mean hustling. unidentified whatever you think of this guy, his dead, affectless eyes, his smooth pulled tight like a snare drum face, he ain't going anywhere. look at him. he's the russian superman, the kgb middle manager desk jockey turned expression of greater russia's hopes and dreams. he lets no opportunity to take his shirt off pass him by. pose with a large gun, he's there. and no matter how transparently autocratic, vengeful, oblivious to even a thin veneer of democracy, russians love him. they seem to feel about him like new yorkers used to feel about giuliani. he may be a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch. it's february 2014, and the sochi olympics are just coming up when i arrive in moscow. it's a different moscow every time i come here. the '80s style go-go capitalist conspicuous consumption see who can spend the most money disco-techno thing that i encountered when i first came here back in 2001, it's still going strong. in fact, these days, moscow has one of the highest concentrations of billionaires in the world. but as never before, its imperial russia now, a one-man rule. all power emanates, every decision must consider, this guy. (music) russia is full of characters with murky pasts and shadowy connections. but one of them i've called a friend for more than a decade. zamir oh, really? i'm really sorry about that. i have an open mind. everything's great. russians have everything they want. thank you, sir. i'm hitting the caviar and the blini. oy- yoy-yoy. thank you. my perception? you really want to hear it? a former midlevel manager in a large corporation, short -- i think that's very important, short -- who has found himself master of the universe. and like a lot of short people, if you piss them off, bad things happen to you. he likes to take his shirt off a lot. he strikes me as a businessman. a businessman with an ego. ok. so he's like donald trump but shorter. you can have that one. i'll get the other two. this is nothing new for me. blows against the empire. speed fight (ph) the man. that's me. i go way back with this. i marched on the pentagon with my dad when i was a kid. yep. i don't know. if that dog was aiming for my nut sack, my day as a dissident will be over quickly. if you do see a demonstration like this one, it is with permission along a planned route, carefully managed, and the cops and security tend to outnumber the demonstrators. right. i'm sort of kind of shocked that these guys are at the same demonstration. the only thing that's uniting this group is general unhappiness with putin. at yornik restaurant, they are serving their own versions of dino-era russian classics. a modern riff on borscht, typically a chunky, hearty cabbage broth with chunks meat, here it's a puree with a more elegant, shall we say, deconstructed presentation. (on and everybody is meant to understand. it seems like a pretty obvious question, if you wanted to hold a winter olympics in miami, presumably someone would say isn't it a little warm there? $26,000 a seat for the curling stadium? to build? yes. you're a pain in the ass. america, yes. all of russia's eyes are upon you. bring honor to your clan. i was actually out here all last night practicing. the biggest producer in russia, true, but his billions are gone. he now lives the life of a mere millionaire. though his victim did not register an official complaint, the message i think was clear. and, in fact, one of your songs was used as the title track for the series. luna's song is the title track to the series, but their episode never happened. (on your seat cushion (ph) and ratatouille. may i propose a toast? to gentle chicken meats. how about education? you asked for capitalism, you got it, buddy. according to reaganomics it's the trickle-down theory. that means if i make lots and lots and lots and lots of money, money will somehow trickle down to you. you know, my masseur, my garage attendant, my aerobic therapist. they of course will be making money. i will be buying more things for various wives and prostitutes. in this way, i don't exactly share the wealth, but i trickle it down and if you don't like your job -- mopping my feces-splattered walls, cleaning up my dead prostitutes, you can leave your job at wal-mart and become a billionaire like me. or you go on a reality show and become really, really rich. doing nothing. it's fantastic. did you put on your jammies? i just want to state for the record, just because you are in the top bunk, that's no indication of any relationship that we may or may not have. but what about tchaikovsky? he was a great musician who liked to have sex with other men. and that's the former palace? everybody came charging through, charged up the states and looted the winter palace. that wouldn't go over well these days. do you have to be afraid? our local fixer, dasha, helps translate. it means whatever they want it to mean. ok. what are they? ok a lot of these political leaders, are they using the issue of gay rights to appeal to a larger audience? right, because usually what happens when you play with the bear is tomorrow or the next day or the next day, the bear eats you. are you hopeful? they choked the dude to death, right? picking up some good speed here. i would hurl them all into the sea tomorrow. no way. no way. i share my toilet with no man. (music) uri, human rights and it's here that i see for the first time a glimpse of my friends in the years mysterious past, growing up in a home just like this one. so who decided to moved into these places? did you got to choose your neighbors though? (laughter) no. i got that. uri (via so what happens next? you're due for some major renovations. (commercial break) bourdain where are we? a little bit? they were very executed. not even carry on? i'll give you 30 of those. bourdain this is the side of vegas i like, this side, yes, because people here are really cynical. unidentified they have a dim world view. even more dim than me. that's hard. you know what this whole show's about? you know there's a theme. unidentified this is about people who live here, you know. when all the meatheads come and go, they're still here. these people have seen every variety of horrifying human behavior. the old business model was come to vegas and behave really, really badly. unidentified really? unidentified is this an easy town to make a living or a hard town to make a living? unidentified if you were born and bred here -- unidentified third generation. so, then, are you an optimist or a pessimist? do you think that basically the human race are good people? unidentified half are going. unidentified hey. unidentified yes, but i'm not hanging with those people, man. there will be a few high end meals during our adventure here. we will be sampling the other side. but there's a price. unidentified bobby flay probably lives like this all the time. unidentified well, it was duncan frey's 14 years ago, so... unidentified you make me feel better about all of this luxury looking back at that. unidentified you're right. you're right. unidentified entering my golden years era. they don't show this in the viagra commercials. they're always running down a beach with a tennis racket but they're never sitting here. you know, go out and kill some young people. (laughter) you'd be like throw them into a prison in there. it would be cold. to victory, ruhlman. victory in our time. (music playing) boulden lovely. unidentified mmm. delicious. unidentified ahh, beautiful. look at that. unidentified i was just thinking that. oh, speaking of fantastically luxurious -- unidentified mmm. unidentified wow, look at this. that is beautiful. you feel guilty eating this well? unidentified you do? unidentified i'm feeling guilty now but it will pass. unidentified wow. you ever even seen anything like this? unidentified yes, me either. unidentified i was thinking of inviting them up to our crib for a party. unidentified don't they deserve a good time? i don't know. maybe not. unidentified trying to make myself feel better. i'm trying to prove that i'm down with the people, man. i'm still cool. unidentified you're right. i feel guilty. unidentified i don't. i don't. i feel guilty about not feeling guilty. unidentified right. (music playing) (commercial break) unidentified pick one, dean martin or frank sinatra. you get to see one of them live in a small room like this. schafer i'm going with dino. schafer whereas sinatra, you would have a hard time hearing something good. there does seem to be a sound track to old vegas. schafer right. yes. yes. yes. does that help? schafer well, an affection for the classics. an expectation that while i'm here, i should hear some standards. schafer they recreated ancient rome sort of and the amalfi coast and paris. you would think somebody would want to recreate vegas. i would go there. schafer that sounds like a good time. was it better before? is it better now? is it different? yes. yes. delicious. oh, yes. bourdain right. these days for better or worse, live acts, live performers, are being squeezed out in favor of edm, electronic dance music. it's a deejay's world and where once they used to say cocaine was god's way of telling you had too much money, now maybe edm is. are we just old? or are non-juicy (ph)? you've got this. power. unidentified just press a button and people respond. unidentified after you finish work, how long does it take for your adrenaline to level off? unidentified what are your dreams like now? unidentified you've got some colorful clients. who was nice and who was less fun to have a...? did alleged mob guys know how to eat? they knew where to go. did the feds hold it against you? you were just doing your job. there were rules then that mattered. you know the old saying, what happens in vegas stays in vegas. back when the mob ran things, there was a certain urgency to that suggestion. moments. it's unique. it's its own hothouse environment. sinatra was not supposed to be particularly amiable at the table. benny really? benny would you describe yourself as a degenerate gambler? eric lindgren (ph), professional uh-oh. those are famous last words. eric lindgren you're a dead man, benny. benny all right. that works for me. benny this is what we call a learning experience in my case. eric lindren let's not do it again. eric lindren is vegas a friendly town? bondi but i mean to itself. you're a local. bondi no. bondi as a resident, what are the general rules of survival? bondi don't complain about being broke. ok. what's another one? bondi this is a service industry town. bondi is that worse than before? bondi right. tila oh, yes, yes, of course, love it. tila that's good. tila jackfruit salad. tila this pork is amazing. tila right. tila oh, that looks really pretty. tila that's perfection, man. tila how did that happen? tila but i mean, were there high rollers who would come into town -- tila e by jose andres, tonight, three seats, tucked away in the back of another of jose's restaurants, paella (ph), behind the guys making paella over open flame in the center of a crowded dining room. quiet, serene, a kind of magic. this is, granted, a far cry from the $1 shrimp cocktail and the all- you-can-eat buffets groaning under the weight of a thousand cars. iberico ham and bean soup with black and roasted garlic. come on, baby, the world's best, like from espain. nitro almond cup, a frozen shell made from a puree of marcona almonds, filled with almond milk espuma and finished with andalusian caviar. you know, chef, this meal is working very well. my palate is open, i'm intrigued, i'm only growing more hungry and excited. the desired effect is taking hold. bourdain so this is mussels, olives with an escabeche foam. unidentified i'm sliding this off right into my face. unidentified this is squid ink (inaudible). unidentified awesome. unidentified ahh, yes. unidentified so you don't wrestle them to the ground, cuff them and drag them in? kern around how much? kern then it just keeps going? kern it seems to me a losing battle to try to keep your grass green. do you really need a lawn in the first place? kern it was lush and green? kern but some people, they want the lawn? got to have it? kern how critical is it? kern i hate clip shows. i despise them. clip shows generally are a cheap exploitative way to wring another hour of television out of existing footage. we aim to be different -- but not that different. all i can say in my own defense, those of you who tuned in expecting new and original material, is there is actually new and original material here, because it probably doesn't surprise you that we don't use everything we shoot. some of it's actually kind of good. so i hope you enjoy this hour of clips. (begin video clip) thirty rounds per magazine of steel jacketed destruction as fast as your finger can pull the trigger. you might well ask yourself why the hell would anybody need a weapon like this? i'm an east coast guy. i'm a new yorker. but i come from a place where a glimpse of weapon on somebody at a bar or in the street is reason for panic. here and in much of america between new york and l.a., you walk into a bar and see somebody with a weapon, that's my neighbor, maybe he's going hunting. who knows? most people you know own guns? unidentified meet jesse, bill, bo and daniel. undientified these guys, i'm guessing, are not people i should be worried about shooting up a shopping mall. they are nice and exceedingly patient with a city boy who wants to play with their guns. there's a dark little genie in all of us i think that wants to pick up a gun, point it at something and blast away. unidentified i like guns. i don't own a gun but i like holding them. i like shooting them. unidentified there is something compelling, an eerie rush, an unholy sense of empowerment feeling the warm glow of these heavy iconic shapes in your hands. i know how to shoot beer cans. if the zombie apocalypse comes, i'll be ready. long as they're holding beers. (laughter) (end video clip) we tend to see places, places in the middle east, africa in particular. we see them as places, we only see them when bad things happen. what do we see in palestine? generally, it's kids throwing rocks and weeping women. for the three minutes or 30 seconds that we get to see footage of this place and other places, that's all we see. i know that a lot of people don't ask palestinians what's for dinner, what's your life like, where does your kid go to school? what are your hopes for your kid? there's a story there. it's not a big story. but it's an important story. (begin video clip) this is laila el-haddad, a native gazan, journalist and author of "the gaza kitchen." laila el-haddad, laila has something to show me. the sultan (ph) family own a small farm in the (inaudible) area of the eastern gaza strip. ohn sultan (ph) and her husband are unusual in that they cook together. this is not typical in this part of the world or in this culture. they use their own fresh-killed chickens to make the gazan classic maklouba, the traditional palestinian dish comprised of layers of fried eggplant, tomato, potatoes, caramelized onions and chicken sauteed and simmered in a broth with nutmeg, cinnamon, cardamom, and rice. absolutely. really, really good. keep cooking like this, it's really delicious. will, in your lifetime -- i guess the first question would be in your lifetime, will you be able to visit yafa? what's he say? tokyo. all i can tell you about tokyo is that my camera crew all came out, their lips were blue and they were shaking after many of the scenes. i want to thank my network for airing the tokyo show. i know they were worried by it. i expected of all the shows we have ever done, i thought that we would get the angriest blowback over the tokyo show. i thought we were really in for it. but wow, you were some sick freaks out there, because apparently you liked it a lot. let's put it this way. if you like the tokyo show, i'm not going camping with you. (begin video clip) a lot. naga all of them? well then the question is how many japanese men like to be tied up? naga so in your experience, all japanese men like to tie women up, but in your experience, all japanese men like to be tied up? (end video clip) (commercial break) i have been many places on this earth and i have been to many american cities. no place in america looks as much like chernobyl as detroit. this is a fact. i was angry about it, really angry, and also inspired. and it angers me that we have reached this point that we as a nation have allowed one of our greatest cities where all of these uniquely american things, this petri dish for cool stuff, it angers me that for whatever reasons, we let this happen. it's unthinkable to me. but never doubt my love for detroit. i love that town. so i hope you will enjoy this stop that we never aired before. before we go back and you see it again and again and again and again and again. (begin video clip) a lot of people point to the riots as the moment where everything started to go bad, without talking about everything that led up to the riots. mike carlyle, retired crack hit like a bomb. i mean, you can literally see the impact zones. these are casualties of war. you don't exactly have 1,000 extra guys just to bust loiterers or guys -- 80 runs behind. let me ask, when you grew up, if you were seen misbehaving down the block, i bet somebody's mother would call your mother. just the sense of looking out for your neighbor, now people, there's a body on your front lawn, eh. there are two detroits, just like there are two americas. there is the detroit a lot of people see when they drive into town to go to a concert or a game. the other detroit, maybe they see it out the window. the detroit i show, the detroit i love, may not be your detroit but it's what i saw. (begin video clip) bourdain (voice george azar (ph), born and raised in southwest detroit. azar wait a minute. you have a whole hipster resurgence going on right in corktown. azar who are the customers? azar not here. azar whose barbecue is better? tough question. azar dennis butler runs vicky's. this is good. really? she came in and was like, i don't like your sauce? you got to love detroit. i don't like your sauce. use this one. your parents opened the place? when did the bulletproof glass go in? think it will ever come down? i hope you don't come down. i hope you stay here. top five favorite food experiences. where was i again? i don't even remember. (begin video clip) unidentified this is where it's at. unidentified it works. unidentified yes. how did you know? unidentified top five food experiences. i don't know, off the top of my head, tokyo always good. so yasuda in tokyo. all of spain. i mean, if you're not eating well in spain, there is no hope for you at all. have i said japan yet? yes. (begin videotape) so if i were like a degenerate rock wino i could still eat well. tapas are free. it shouldn't work but somehow it does. i could pretty much eat that all day. another drink, another tapa. unidentified ok, fried fish, then we're done. and cheese. yes, here we go. mm. i just had this incredibly delicious meal, completely oblivious to the fact it's entirely vegetarian. if any of the vegetarian restaurants in new york served food that tasted anywhere like this, i would actually go there. i would consider it. that's delicious. i think i better have another one of these. unidentified behold the future. undientified yes. unidentified i will tell you this is some of the best greens i ever had. no doubt about it. unidentified they're not just delicious, they are luxurious. yasuda is a friend and my master in the sense that he's taught me pretty much everything i know about sushi over the years. (music) delicious. which is more important, the rice or the fish? or what percentage? rice. wow. ok. so copenhagen was an amazing meal. that was one of those places where you're eating a really important meal. you've heard about it for years. in the case of noma, how could it be as great as everyone said, particularly since you're eating moss and all this forage stuff, which kind of goes against my instincts. there's a hippie dimension that i'm hostile to. but it was truly a delicious, delicious, wildly creative yet always delicious meal. (begin videotape) what rene and cruz started, what they're famous for, is foraging for ingredients. unidentified and color me dubious. no. that is incredible. there's no way that this is going to look convincingly delicious on tv. but it is really delicious. to tell the truth, food nerds, captains of industry, celebrities, you name it, have been flocking here for years. unidentified that's good. the technique, you don't notice it. you notice the flavor. that's delicious. it's like i have never tasted a green vegetable that good. unidentified you got a little fish ran right through. i love it. unidentified it's great. unidentified very traditional flavors. unidentified so, i know these ingredients, we were plucking them yesterday. unidentified wow. unidentified that is incredible. unidentified whoa! quail egg copenhagen. wow. that's like the greatest thing ever. a perfect dish. unidentified i want more of those. unidentified this is amazing. that's like both really classic and totally new. unidentified this is like super-powered. they're not just thinking about what tastes good now, they're talking about will it taste good in two years if we ferment it or age it or dry it. unidentified oh, beautiful. unidentified wow. unidentified look, i have eaten in a lot of great restaurants around the world, and it was still a little part of me that was saying, you know, this is going to be (expletive deleted). (laughter) you guys out in the field yanking weeds out of the ground, i really didn't expect it to be as good as it was. it was delicious. it was amazingly delicious. unidentified yes. i thought it was amazing. unidentified but always delicious. always, always, always delicious first. (end videotape) (commercial break) ah, yes, let's talk about sicily. now, it was a unique moment in my personal television history. not one that i'm proud of. how can you screw up a show in sicily? it's incredible on its face that such a thing is possible. you have to understand, this was our second sicily show. we made these mistakes before. and you know, i thought that sicily, particularly second time around, would be like an easy, a lay-up of a show. it's one of the most amazing places on earth. you know the food's great. there is never going to be any shortage of characters in sicily. the architecture is spectacular. everywhere you point your camera, it's beautiful. and yet somehow, we managed to make a hash of it. sicily deserves better, and god knows i deserve better. or at least i think so. maybe i don't. even if i don't deserve better, i deserve better than that. what you see on the sicily episode is an actual, real-time nervous breakdown. (begin videotape) so the plan was we go fishing. we get some fresh octopus, maybe some cuttlefish, explore the bounty of the surrounding waters, all while working on our tans. with a local chef, fishermen, man of the sea. he's experienced. he knows where to get it good. i love it. how do you say it in italian? ricci. yes. it's one of my favorite things to eat. this is turin, my host. what else is out there? octopus? nice. i'm thinking, really? are these prime fishing waters? i don't know about this. with all this boat traffic and all these people, so close to the action i can't see much of anything living down there. but i am famous for my optimism so i dutifully suited up for what was advertised as a three-hour cruise. so i get in the water, and i'm paddling around. and splash. suddenly there's a dead sea creature sinking slowly so the seabed in front of me. are they kidding me? i'm thinking, can this be happening? splash, there's another one. another rigor mortis half-frozen freaking octopus but it goes on. one dead cuttlefish, deceased octopus, frozen sea urchin after another, splash, splash, splash. each specimen drops among the rocks or along the sea floor, to be heroically discovered by turin moments later and proudly shown off to camera, like i'm not actually watching as this confederate in the next boat over hurls them into the water one after another. i'm no marine biologist, but i know dead octopus when i see one. pretty sure they don't drop from the sky and then sink straight to the bottom. strangely everyone pretends to believe the hideous sham unfolding before our eyes, doing their best to ignore the blindingly obvious. then they gave up and just dumped the whole bag of dead fish into the sea. at this point i begin desperately looking for signs of life, hoping that one of them would stir, become revived. i'm frantically swimming around the bottom littered with dead things looking for one that's still twitching so can i hold it up to the camera and end this misery, but, no, my shame will be absolute. for some reason i feel something snap, and i slide quickly into a spiral of near hysterical depression. is this what it's come to, i'm thinking, as another dead squid narrowly misses my head? almost a decade later back in the same country, and i'm still desperately staging fishing scenes, seeding the oceans with supermarket seafood, complicit in a shameful, shameful incident of fakery? but there i was, bobbing listlessly in the water. dead sea life sinking to the bottom all around me. you've got to be pretty immune to the world to not see some kind of obvious metaphor. i've never had a nervous breakdown before, but i tell you from the bottom of my heart something fell apart down there, and it took a long, long time after the end of this damn episode to recover. (end videotape) so look, i've had worse things happen to me, and god knows worse things have happened to other people. i was in sicily, after all. but i'm just telling you, reasonably or not, that was my personal waterloo. i mean, for the first time in a long time -- let's face it, i have the best job in the world -- i'm sitting there in the sicilian countryside, staring off into space thinking you know, i wonder if my old brunch shift is still available. (commercial break) i have been to a lot of countries. i have seen a lot of things. and if i know anything for sure, it is that i know nothing for sure. that people will always surprise you, that the world is big. the more i travel, the more i see, i really feel that the steeper the climb, the more stuff that i realize at least that i don't know. (begin videotape) where are we going? what is this place we're coming up on? unidentified right. unidentified really? there's no doubt about it. you can track the genealogy of this dish right back to this guy. unidentified if you read his books, you know edgar is no stranger to the absurd. nor, it appears, is he a stranger to the absurdly delicious. unidentified the ingredients, hard-boiled eggs, fried eggplant, hummus, tahini, salad, potato, parsley and mango sauce. the assembly process is time-consuming and intricate. like brain surgery. i will hold this and look at it while they make yours. my god, look at that. unidentified now, is it an appropriate way to attack this? does one go straight in or does one go at it from an angle? unidentified from the corner. well, i'm a manly man. unidentified so going straight in. all right. wow. that is pretty indescribably delicious, isn't it? unidentified this is a great argument for the greatness of a nation, actually. unidentified this is the end of what has actually been a deeply traumatic week for me. there's no safe ground at all to describe even the most innocuous things. is it a wall or is it a fence? unidentified looks like a wall to me, too. i'm frustrated that i'm not going back to new york feeling any smarter. i am definitely not going back feeling like i have learned or been able to encapsulate or -- i don't feel i'm capable of going back and having an intelligent conversation about my experience. i feel all messed up emotionally. unidentified i'll become a pundit. (laughter) unidentified when selecting locations for parts unknown, there is always sort of a sliding sequence or hierarchy of criteria. one is does it sound like a cool place to go? a chef friend says the food's awesome. there are a few times where it's issue-driven or concern-driven, but generally it's nothing more intellectual or well thought through than well, that place looks really good. let's go there. (begin videotape) looks like everybody in this town is either on their way to have sex or coming back from having sex. the kaiparinias (ph). did i mention kaiparinias? they do those here, too. i like them. i like them a lot. what's magical about this cocktail is the first taste. it's like i don't know, man. it's a little too something. then like that second sip, it's like oh, that's kind of good. then the third sip, it's where are my pants? bobby flay probably lives like this all the time. unidentified well, i was dunking fries 14 years ago. unidentified you make me feel better about all of this luxury looking back at that. unidentified you're right. you're right. unidentified entering my golden years era. you know, go ahead and kill some young people (ph). (laughter) (inaudible) getting cold. to victory. victory in our time. this is the story of one man, one chef and a city. also, it's about france and a lot of other chefs, and a culinary tradition that grew up to change the world of gastronomy. it's about a family tree, about the trunk from which many branches grew. and it's about food, lots of food, great food. some of the greatest food on earth. mexico is a country where every day, people fight to live. all too often, they lose that battle. a magnificent, heartbreakingly beautiful country. the music and food and a uniquely mexican, darkly funny, deeply felt world view. right down there, cuddled up beneath us, our brother from another mother. this is going to be suboptimal seating. yeah, i don't think this reclines. thank god they have relaxed attitudes towards prescription drugs. before you enter the gateway to the himalayas, you better self-medicate. while my stomach growls, i become the kind of traveler i warn against. gripy, self-absorbed, immune to my surroundings. but as my brightly colored little train heads up into the hills from calcutta station, known as the gateway to the himalayas, my world view starts to improve. (end videotape) i have been doing shows like this for a long time. i have been traveling for about 14 years. the challenge is always to stay interested and to have a good time. i just like to keep making episodes that are different than the week before, that are, you know, as creative as we can be, do the best job we possibly can. as long as you don't know what's next, i'm doing good. unidentified no. let's hit the beach. (begin videotape) anthony bourdain, host thanks to some remarkably bad koreans, though, things are beginning to change. roy choi, they're not coming. the choppers will not be here anytime soon. when the los angeles riots happened in 1992, roy was 22 years old. in this plaza's rooftop played a central role for koreans defending their town. let's back up a bit. after the immigration act of 1965, thousands of koreans began arriving in l.a. the first to arrive were mostly middle-class, college-educated, hoping to make a lateral move into american society. but unless you have a medical or engineering degree, that turned out to be tough. they found work as merchants, store owners, opened liquor stores, groceries, massage studios, dry cleaners. they did that in an area that was, as it's called, underserved, where major chains feared to tread, where others preferred to abandon, koreans moved in. so, 1992 -- four l.a. police officers are on trial for what sure as hell looked to me like a wildly excessive and prolonged beating of an unarmed rodney king. in april of that year, they were acquitted. for me, it was a "holy shit, i never saw that coming" moment. for african-americans, it was a ruder (ph) surprise. to say people were angry would be an understatement. unidentified the lapd were completely unprepared for what happened next. where did they set up their front line? fifty-eight people were killed. only a quarter of korean- owned businesses survived, either destroyed outright during the riots or abandoned afterwards by owners who felt the entire underpinning of their contract with america had shifted. yet today, korean town is bigger and better and forever changed by what happened in 1992. dong il jang (ph), however is as an unwaveringly old school. roy and i sit down with roy kim, whose grandfather opened the place in 1978. like most korean restaurants at the time, you didn't mess with the original, ever. and like most father/son relationships, you obeyed dad's wishes, no matter what. roy we start with the bon chon (ph), all those delicious little freebie plates of pickles, preserves, kimchi, a spicy squid or two. no bon chon, no meal. what would a crime -- what got you into that position? roy trained at the culinary institute of america, and interned at la veranda in new york city. he wants his trucks like you'd expect of someone with that background. every lunch shift and every evening, the trucks' locations are sent out over twitter. the locations change every day. and people flock quickly to find them, as the lines can get long, very long. i took a run with roy as he made his nightly rounds. (on kimchi, spam, classic. a big bowl of rice with meat, vegetables and lots of flavor, for less than 10 bucks. good deal. (on hence the shape. six hundred people for one truck? what about fantastic - what about bel air? can you pull up on a corner in a residential area in bel air? what happens there? do you get rousted? that i got to see. why should you be excited about food trucks, because they allow creative chefs roy without a lot of money to start creating and selling their stuff, introducing themselves to the world without having to gather up a million dollars or credulous partners, and they're affordable, they're democratic, and they are faster, better and infinitely preferable to fast food like the king and the clown and the colonel. (end videotape) (commercial break) (begin videotape) bourdain wow. you need a puppy, man. you need a puppy. yes, sure. ok. i want to know, you said young people are looking to follow your road to success, your advice is, whatever you do, don't date a korean girl? what characteristics in common were you -- overbearing. oh, yes. whoa! awesome. wow. dude, i'm honored. i've never had my portrayed done before. i have to have some steak. thank you. unidentified oh, yes. (inaudible) oh, now, you're getting korean on me. if you eat non-korean, this was it. i'm not kidding around here. oh, yes, now we're talking, my friend. now, wait a minute. are you saying that the cheese bread is complimentary? so were you good sizzler customers? do you think they were happy to see you come? i love this dish, man. when i go back, i might have to have a meatball taco. it's delicious. i get why it could be a wonderland. for you, sizzler a happy place? how many korean low riders are there? unidentified more asians? more koreans than 15 years ago? we're seeing a crossover with the food. within the border of koreatown, it's not just koreans. there are new arrive arrivals every day. there's, in fact, an official little bangladesh right in the middle of k-town. (on here at (inaudible), step right in for curried goats, samosas, tandoori chicken. oh, yes, and this -- fish curry with no small amount of chilies. (on why oaxaca? is that just the way it worked out? filipinos are very proud of their food, underrepresented. oh, look at that. what is that? i've got to take a picture of that. it's oddly beautiful. you know i'm getting a bite of that little -- what is that? little big bite. no, don't say that. actually, i like that. aloha. it just sounds magical. is there like pineapple in there? hence the aloha. that's a very tasty burger. nice char. it's actually very tasty. wow, there's so much i don't know. (end videotape) (commercial break) (begin videotape) (inaudible) oh, yes. good stuff. unidnentified ok. which ones are you? are you the oldest? already signs of trouble here. so this is a family of artists? food is ready. cheongpomuk, seaweed and jelly mung beans, chop suey, noodles, shiitake mushrooms and vegetables. avocado eggrolls, fried squid and shrimps. potato pancake. often, at the choe's house, there's a few mexican dishes sprinkled in as well. it's always a great meal. i can tell you that. during the riots of '92, jim and jane choe worked as real estate agents and property managers, so the destruction in koreatown had a direct impact on their lives. the choes watched from homes as the chaos unfolded on tv. after the riots, jim wrote a letter to the editor that was published in "los angeles times." jim choe, david would have a very different reaction. filmmakers, all the top korean film makers. artists, right? unidentified what's remarkable to me, every kid, i mean, all korean kids, the same position, holding a book -- unidentified wow. well, i mean, it's been described in a way that sounded benign. this is a burning sense of injustice, besiegement and desire for revenge. myung in dumplings, where they served a mix between korean and chinese. each plate handmade to order by friends, opened in 2007 on olympic boulevard, it's run by yu jin (ph), a korean by way of a shenyang province in china. kind of, yes, pre-prolapse. i like this place already. good signage. that's important. hi, guys. the speed with which they assume the position. (crosstalk) unidentified water, wow. what if your arms get tired? unidentified i was very aware that all my korean friends no matter how creative or successful seemed strangely haunted by something, but i never knew this. (on interesting. yes. all tofu should be spicy by my way of thinking. so good. it's an extraordinarily beautiful and delicious things. it sounds awful honestly. totally enjoying this. what do your parents want you to be when you grow up? right. obviously not a doctor or lawyer. did you finish college? right. so you're a bad korean. according to who? right. still got some explaining to do. morning in yangon, to nearly everyone's surprise, there have been some huge changes in recent months. aung san suu kyi, human rights nobel prize-winning democracy champion, aung san suu kyi, for nearly 15 years under house arrest, was released, and is now taking an active part in politics. just as the the doors are opening, my crew and i are among the first to record what has been unseen for decades by most of the world. meanwhile, this southeast asian country of 80 million people is collectively holding its breath, waiting to see what's next, and will this loosening of government grip last? of course, morning in yangon has always been about tea. it's black indian-style tea, usually with a thick dollop of sweetened condensed milk. you want it sweet, less sweet, very sweet? strong? less strong? everybody's got a preference, everybody's got a preferred tea shop, where they know presumably how you like yours. thiha saw, journalist and publisher thiha saw, we meet at the seit taing kya tea shop. for 50 years of paranoia and repression, teahouses were also the main forum for guarded and not-so guarded discussions of the daily news, where you tried to piece together the real stories behind the ludicrously chopped and censored newspapers. but carefully, of course, because informers and secret police were also heavily represented in these hotbeds of sedition and discontent. (on really? how long? two times. right. right. that doesn't sound good. magazines that would come into the country would -- they'd cut, literally cut out the pieces? right. well, something you were accused of, sending secret messages? yes. sprinkle some in here. good textures. particularly in the light of obama's recent visit, these are interesting times. significant changes for the first time in 50 years. right. feel good? i love the answer. it's a careful yes. this is ma thanegi, a famous and very controversial figure in public life. (on but her many well-known books on the culinary traditions of myanmar make her a compelling advocate for burmese cuisine. (on it was pig head salad with kaffir lime leaf, long beans salad with sesame and fish sauce. penny leaf salad, even this salad of indian-style samosa. (on no first court or second course? ma right. ma and it's really about the interaction between a lot of colors, textures and flavors in one dish or -- ma different. ma wow, i'm in love. that's good. ma anything goes. ma it figures, doesn't it? yes. it makes perfect sense then that over cold brew and chicken necks in the port of yangon, philip is the one joining me to explore this particular moment in myanmar. full moon party tonight. (crosstalk) what's that means, we have no idea. it gets crazy from now on. i'll tell you, it's the backbone of every street fair in the world, isn't it? deep fried food. anytime you tell me crispy little bird, i'm all over it. good beak. oh, and they have rides. an absolutely insanely dangerous closely choreographed process of first getting the the giant heavily laden wheel in motion and then getting it up to top speed and keeping it there. (on oh, yes. it's fantastic. zarni for almost six years? zarni right. zarni what is life like inside prison? zarni i have a hard time believing that. zarni access to books? zarni right. zarni how is the food? zarni the food in prison? zarni so there is hope for this country, in your view. yes? zarni meet burmese punk rockers side effect, and lead singer darko. pork tail. yes. this is barbecue is awesome. yes. they are like the worst band in the history of, like, the world. so what's it like having an indie band in myanmar? difficult? that must be funny. now is that still the case? so let me ask this. if all your dreams came true, where would you want to play? you want to go to new york city? i hope people reach out to you. because making roll and roll is hard enough. a truly independent rock and roll is even harder. and i'm guessing that making it here is harder still. so, gentlemen, you deserve some success. people should hear you. no, we lost the dining car, i hear. we've been told it's a somewhat uncomfortable 10-hour trip. (on yes. all aboard. whoa. we're moving. here we go. really? this is cruising speed? we can literally outrun this thing. we could catch up with it. derailments or rail splits, as they are referred to here, is somewhat more benign sounding occurrence that say rolling off the tracks into a rice paddy, are not uncommon. and one can't help wondering what the engineer and conductor are thinking as the train speeds heedlessly on faster and faster. you don't want to be, like, holding a lab dog. what's in yours? potato. a thousand years ago bagan was the capital for a long line of burma kings. it's the sort of place where the old coexists with the even older. as elsewhere in this part of the world, in many of the buddhist temples here far older animist, spirit-based beliefs coexist with more recent buddhism. and in myanmar, worship of the gnats is wide spread. nat, as i understand it, are more like greek gods, formed as humans, demigods, spirits, often with very human qualities and failings. dance performances pay homage to the individual nats, performers claiming to actually channel them, bringing about, one hopes, a beneficial spiritual possession. but i'm not just here for a nat pue (ph). i have a list. things to eat in myanmar. and this is one of them. chicken curry. and from roadside joints like this nestled among the temple ruins, you're more than likely to catch a very enticing whiff. (on you'll encounter some western travelers at bagan's temple sites for sure, but generally speaking they are a hardy bunch. even the bus tours here are not for the feint of heart or weak of spirit. but for the most part you're far more likely to bump into a goat than a foreigner. i'm thinking you build these many temples, thousands of them in a relatively short period of time, chances are, somebody was working for less than minimum wage, let's put it that way. it's going to mean mobility, it's going to mean prosperity for some. it will mean a lot of bad things, too. it will mean prostitution. it will mean hustling. unidentified tangier, it's morocco. but from 1923 through 1956, it was loosely governed by the major powers, in international zone. for years, it seemed, everything was permitted, nothing was forbidden. at the northern tip of africa, a short ferry hop from spain, tangier was a magnet for writers, (inaudible) band, spies, and artists. if you were a bad boy of your time, if you liked drugs, the kind of sex that was frowned upon at home, and an affordable lifestyle set against an exotic background, tangier was for you. matisse, genest, william burroughs. many have come this way, staying a while or hanging around, but no one stayed longer or became more associated with tangier than the novelist and composer paul bowles. in works like "the sheltering sky" he created a romantic vision of tangier that persists even today. a dream that has become almost inseparable in the minds of many from reality. i'm here to find that dream city. the place burroughs referred to as "interzone." tangier, like i said was a city of ex-pats -- people with pasts, people who simply didn't like where they were and crave somewhere and something else. the grand socco is the gateway to the medina where you could find the kasbah, which means fortress, by the way. the port of tangier is to the east, and right in the middle of it all, the petit socco. what uncle bill burroughs called the last spot, the meeting place, the switchboard of tangier. reasons for settling in tangier diverge, but everyone sooner or later, since the beginning of memory, comes to cafe tingis. jonathan dawson came to this city over 20 years ago as a journalist and he never left. he lives a live not too distant from burroughs' fantasy. taking tea at as a writer, i've noticed everybody who comes here to do an article does the same article. yes. yes. it was inevitable. let's pretend that those guys never came. what is -- what is this place? right. right. (crosstalk) and a great story. but i mean, the attitude here is different than other parts of morocco. i think they have a higher tolerance of tradition of bad or outrageous behavior. how moroccan is tangier? the notion of living a life apart, of being somewhere else, there are those who like that feeling. i like that feeling. and then there are those who may live apart, they may live somewhere else, but they're not entirely comfortable. it's the -- the difference annoys them or is a burden. yes, yes, yes, i get it. it's supposed to make me more manly. you know what? i'm eating. let's not talk about that, ok, sunshine? what is a tagine anyway? it's a traditional moroccan stew that can include vegetables, meat or fish. tonight, baby shark, calamari and monkfish, with fresh mountain spinach. slowly cooked over charcoal in the classic clay pot that gives it its name, the tagine's dome top. it's supposed to force the condensation back into the dish and keep it moist and tender. (on i haven't had so much fruits and nuts since altaban. i told mick, i said, mick, this is a bad crowd. back of the shop, but he's like, man, we can't disappoint the fans. (commercial break) bourdain you know, you're not getting totally ripped here? he likes. he sees it as a future economic super power, as i understand it. he's talking condos, boutique, hotels. is that good or bad? unidentified right. unidentified flat screen. you can well imagine the american guy who's lived in tangier for 30 years. ok? he comes in and there's a flat screen tv on the wall, he's like, what the -- you've ruined the authenticity and the integrity, but the moroccan guy at the next table is like, wait a minute, wait a minute, asshole, do you have a flat screen tv at home? i want one, too. what's wrong with that? right. contact high, whoa, i'm hungry. wait until the spanish tortilla dude across the street opens for business. this is abdelileh. he specializes in making one thing and he makes it well. an omelet. well, it's actually more like a spanish tortilla but like stonier. the potatoes are boiled, diced, they're mixed with beaten eggs and cooked in a cast iron skillet. yes, the eggs, the eggman, i am me and we are you, and where is my omelet, dude, because i am hungry? abdelileh is just waiting for you right when you come stumbling out of cafe baba. coincidence or not? you be the judge. ketchup and mayonnaise? sure, why not. condiment options i would be hard pressed to turn down at this precise moment anyway. (on could i have one? it's good. thank you. just gorgeous. like anywhere else in the arab world, eating with your hands, always the right one, is proper dining etiquette. unidentified i love good food. this is good. unidentified how old is this? how much are you selling this piece for? by weight. so that's how much in dollars? above $5,000. should we look at another floor? so you travel a lot? oh, this is for pounding (inaudible). how much will this sell for? really? for this? that's very reasonable. i'll be buying that. that's going to be an old friend. and a memory. of tangier as well. it's -- right. what was better about those days? now that looks good. the swordfish is amazing. so how else have things changed? they were in a hurry. or make you buy something that they don't want? do they buy? they don't buy. there is a side-by-side aspect to life here that's very unusual. unidentified but it is sort of a station of the cross for, you know, bad boys of culture. i mean, rambo, the stones, guyson. burroughs writes about it. he came here to be a writer. unidentified as so many of us were. you want to think of yourself as a writer, you would come here and somehow you were working within a romantic tradition, burroughs said right up front, to me a writer -- from when i was a little boy, a writer was a guy who lunged around in a smoking jacket or a caftan smoking a hash pipe or an opium pipe in a beautifully anointed house boat littered with sleeping boys. unidentified to what extent did that world exist and to what extent was that were created by people who showed up with that expectation? unidentified he was -- unidentified he was the very opposite of genteel. he was an outlaw. (crosstalk) unidentified who smokes hashish at this table, please raise your hand? unidentified well, what about young artists, young writers, young musicians? did they come here expecting this romantic paul bowles wonderland of the '50s? too bohemian. is going to be enough. right. yes. right. the medina. they come, well, like we come. we embrace it. other people want to come, and then we roll out. will tangier's unique character survive? morning in yangon, to nearly everyone's surprise, there have been some huge changes in recent months. aung san suu kyi, human rights nobel prize-winning democracy champion, aung san suu kyi, for nearly 15 years under house arrest, was released, and is now taking an active part in politics. just as the the doors are opening, my crew and i are among the first to record what has been unseen for decades by most of the world. meanwhile, this southeast asian country of 80 million people is collectively holding its breath, waiting to see what's next, and will this loosening of government grip last? of course, morning in yangon has always been about tea. it's black indian-style tea, usually with a thick dollop of sweetened condensed milk. you want it sweet, less sweet, very sweet? strong? less strong? everybody's got a preference, everybody's got a preferred tea shop, where they know presumably how you like yours. thiha saw, journalist and publisher thiha saw, we meet at the seit taing kya tea shop. for 50 years of paranoia and repression, teahouses were also the main forum for guarded and not-so guarded discussions of the daily news, where you tried to piece together the real stories behind the ludicrously chopped and censored newspapers. but carefully, of course, because informers and secret police were also heavily represented in these hotbeds of sedition and discontent. (on really? how long? two times. right. right. that doesn't sound good. magazines that would come into the country would -- they'd cut, literally cut out the pieces? right. well, something you were accused of, sending secret messages? yes. sprinkle some in here. good textures. particularly in the light of obama's recent visit, these are interesting times. significant changes for the first time in 50 years. right. feel good? i love the answer. it's a careful yes. this is ma thanegi, a famous and very controversial figure in public life. (on but her many well-known books on the culinary traditions of myanmar make her a compelling advocate for burmese cuisine. (on it was pig head salad with kaffir lime leaf, long beans salad with sesame and fish sauce. penny leaf salad, even this salad of indian-style samosa. (on no first court or second course? ma right. ma and it's really about the interaction between a lot of colors, textures and flavors in one dish or -- ma different. ma wow, i'm in love. that's good. ma anything goes. ma it figures, doesn't it? yes. it makes perfect sense then that over cold brew and chicken necks in the port of yangon, philip is the one joining me to explore this particular moment in myanmar. full moon party tonight. (crosstalk) what's that means, we have no idea. it gets crazy from now on. i'll tell you, it's the backbone of every street fair in the world, isn't it? deep fried food. anytime you tell me crispy little bird, i'm all over it. good beak. oh, and they have rides. an absolutely insanely dangerous closely choreographed process of first getting the the giant heavily laden wheel in motion and then getting it up to top speed and keeping it there. (on oh, yes. it's fantastic. zarni for almost six years? zarni right. zarni what is life like inside prison? zarni i have a hard time believing that. zarni access to books? zarni right. zarni how is the food? zarni the food in prison? zarni so there is hope for this country, in your view. yes? zarni meet burmese punk rockers side effect, and lead singer darko. pork tail. yes. this is barbecue is awesome. yes. they are like the worst band in the history of, like, the world. so what's it like having an indie band in myanmar? difficult? that must be funny. now is that still the case? so let me ask this. if all your dreams came true, where would you want to play? you want to go to new york city? i hope people reach out to you. because making roll and roll is hard enough. a truly independent rock and roll is even harder. and i'm guessing that making it here is harder still. so, gentlemen, you deserve some success. people should hear you. no, we lost the dining car, i hear. we've been told it's a somewhat uncomfortable 10-hour trip. (on yes. all aboard. whoa. we're moving. here we go. really? this is cruising speed? we can literally outrun this thing. we could catch up with it. derailments or rail splits, as they are referred to here, is somewhat more benign sounding occurrence that say rolling off the tracks into a rice paddy, are not uncommon. and one can't help wondering what the engineer and conductor are thinking as the train speeds heedlessly on faster and faster. you don't want to be, like, holding a lab dog. what's in yours? potato. a thousand years ago bagan was the capital for a long line of burma kings. it's the sort of place where the old coexists with the even older. as elsewhere in this part of the world, in many of the buddhist temples here far older animist, spirit-based beliefs coexist with more recent buddhism. and in myanmar, worship of the gnats is wide spread. nat, as i understand it, are more like greek gods, formed as humans, demigods, spirits, often with very human qualities and failings. dance performances pay homage to the individual nats, performers claiming to actually channel them, bringing about, one hopes, a beneficial spiritual possession. but i'm not just here for a nat pue (ph). i have a list. things to eat in myanmar. and this is one of them. chicken curry. and from roadside joints like this nestled among the temple ruins, you're more than likely to catch a very enticing whiff. (on you'll encounter some western travelers at bagan's temple sites for sure, but generally speaking they are a hardy bunch. even the bus tours here are not for the feint of heart or weak of spirit. but for the most part you're far more likely to bump into a goat than a foreigner. i'm thinking you build these many temples, thousands of them in a relatively short period of time, chances are, somebody was working for less than minimum wage, let's put it that way. it's going to mean mobility, it's going to mean prosperity for some. it will mean a lot of bad things, too. it will mean prostitution. it will mean hustling. unidentified