I'm not going to lie. I've said some of them out loud. I hear it all the time in the hall and stuff. And I guess I'm used to it. Probably a newborn baby, like a new newborn baby that's still in your mom's stomach, but well, the babies that can't talk probably know it but just can't talk, I think. Like when I get into a bad mood, because my cousin, he broke something of mine yesterday, and I had got mad. And I didn't mean to curse and it just slipped out. And I said, you F-ing idiot, you broke my D stuff. And then I had got in trouble. When you're in an argument with somebody, and they take it too far, and then you just want to say, dude, what the H is your problem? Or there's just things you want to say. You cuss when you hurt yourself and it really hurts. I'm sure you cuss, don't you? Do you? Because you can. You're an adult. You have to let yourself free sometimes. Well, I think he meant that it was a really great award that he got. It's a word that you use when you're either very something. If you're very happy, I guess you'd use that. If you're very sad, or very angry at someone, you'd use that. He was very proud of his award. And he was exaggerating brilliant by just using F-ing. Well, I just don't see what the horrible deal is with swearing. But in my opinion, I wouldn't want my grandparents to hear swear words. If we were in a car, and the radio, I wouldn't mind it. But I wouldn't want my grandpa, my grandma to hear the lyrics and the music that I like to listen to. Because it's inappropriate. It might upset them. It might, you know, why does he know these words? Why are we listening to this music? You F-in' B, why don't you get out of my F-in' face? Actually, I'm kind of in the middle of some homework.  Dull.  Quiet.  Very quiet. Activities.  Amazing.  Yes.  Yeah. It's better than it was before, anyways. I liked it. Yeah, because before it was just old ladies. Now it's young people. It was a lot of fun.  Yes, it did. It made me think about, hey, if librarians could do this, make a library not very much a library with making it loud, basically, anyone could do anything.  How did your families take it when you decided to start a rock band? 
How are things resolved within the government when there are differences of opinion?  The people on my dad's side, they don't know how to talk to kids. They go, oh, you're so cute. They have got to say like, oh, he's so cute--  --like you were born yesterday.  Mine too! Mine too. Also, sometimes they make a joke when you're seven, and you laugh so much at it. And then, when you're 10 or 11, it's not so funny anymore. And they keep saying the joke. And you just go, oh, that's not very funny anymore.  My dad, he's the kind of guy who makes those jokes all the time. And he's like-- I asked him now, can you make me a sandwich? He's like, poof! Aw, didn't work. And that really annoys me. He does that all the time in front of my friends. And it kind of annoys me sometimes.  Yeah. It was funny like the first couple of times.  You're not around him all the time. And it gets repetitive. And it's not that funny anymore. 
Are you guys-- are you able to find a new leader if you wanted one? Yeah, with my parents, I just go, can you ask more specific? When it's just like that, and I just want to get out of it, I just go, oh, it's been really nice. Yeah, I like science the best. Assuming their next question, and then getting out of it. 
I've waited to say this word for 19 years. I hate this man.  My parents, they're always asking, so, who do you have a crush on?  Well, I have a neighbor that kind of teases me. He's pretty old. He always says like, you're a mama's boy and, who's your girlfriend? Well, it just doesn't feel right. 