well, thank you, lester, and thanks to hofstra for hosting us. the central question in this election is really what kind of country we want to be and what kind of future we'll build together. today is my granddaughter's second birthday, so i think about this a lot. first, we have to build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. that means we need new jobs, good jobs, with rising incomes. i want us to invest in you. i want us to invest in your future. that means jobs in infrastructure, in advanced manufacturing, innovation and technology, clean, renewable energy, and small business, because most of the new jobs will come from small business. we also have to make the economy fairer. that starts with raising the national minimum wage and also guarantee, finally, equal pay for women's work.i also want to see more companies do profit-sharing. if you help create the profits, you should be able to share in them, not just the executives at the top. and i want us to do more to support people who are struggling to balance family and work. i've heard from so many of you about the difficult choices you face and the stresses that you're under. so let's have paid family leave, earned sick days. let's be sure we have affordable child care and debt-free college. how are we going to do it? we're going to do it by having the wealthy pay their fair share and close the corporate loopholes. finally, we tonight are on the stage together, donald trump and i. donald, it's good to be with you. we're going to have a debate where we are talking about the important issues facing our country. you have to judge us, who can shoulder the immense, awesome responsibilities of the presidency, who can put into action the plans that will make your life better. i hope that i will be able to earn your vote on november 8th.well, i think that trade is an important issue. of course, we are 5 percent of the world's population; we have to trade with the other 95 percent. and we need to have smart, fair trade deals. we also, though, need to have a tax system that rewards work and not just financial transactions. and the kind of plan that donald has put forth would be trickle-down economics all over again. in fact, it would be the most extreme version, the biggest tax cuts for the top percent of the people in this country than we've ever had. i call it trumped-up trickle-down, because that's exactly what it would be. that is not how we grow the economy. we just have a different view about what's best for growing the economy, how we make investments that will actually produce jobs and rising incomes. i think we come at it from somewhat different perspectives. i understand that. you know, donald was very fortunate in his life, and that's all to his benefit. he started his business with $14 million, borrowed from his father, and he really believes that the more you help wealthy people, the better off we'll be and that everything will work out from there. i don't buy that. i have a different experience. my father was a small-businessman. he worked really hard. he printed drapery fabrics on long tables, where he pulled out those fabrics and he went down with a silkscreen and dumped the paint in and took the squeegee and kept going. and so what i believe is the more we can do for the middle class, the more we can invest in you, your education, your skills, your future, the better we will be off and the better we'll grow. that's the kind of economy i want us to see again.well, let's stop for a second and remember where we were eight years ago. we had the worst financial crisis, the great recession, the worst since the 1930s. that was in large part because of tax policies that slashed taxes on the wealthy, failed to invest in the middle class, took their eyes off of wall street, and created a perfect storm. in fact, donald was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. he said, back in 2006, "gee, i hope it does collapse, because then i can go in and buy some and make some money." well, it did collapse.nine million people -- nine million people lost their jobs. five million people lost their homes. and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. now, we have come back from that abyss. and it has not been easy. so we're now on the precipice of having a potentially much better economy, but the last thing we need to do is to go back to the policies that failed us in the first place. independent experts have looked at what i've proposed and looked at what donald's proposed, and basically they've said this, that if his tax plan, which would blow up the debt by over $5 trillion and would in some instances disadvantage middle-class families compared to the wealthy, were to go into effect, we would lose 3.5 million jobs and maybe have another recession. they've looked at my plans and they've said, ok, if we can do this, and i intend to get it done, we will have 10 million more new jobs, because we will be making investments where we can grow the economy. take clean energy. some country is going to be the clean- energy superpower of the 21st century. donald thinks that climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the chinese. i think it's real.i think science is real.and i think it's important that we grip this and deal with it, both at home and abroad. and here's what we can do. we can deploy a half a billion more solar panels. we can have enough clean energy to power every home. we can build a new modern electric grid. that's a lot of jobs; that's a lot of new economic activity. so i've tried to be very specific about what we can and should do, and i am determined that we're going to get the economy really moving again, building on the progress we've made over the last eight years, but never going back to what got us in trouble in the first place.well, actually… [interruption]well, actually, i have thought about this quite a bit.and i have -- well, not quite that long. i think my husband did a pretty good job in the 1990s. i think a lot about what worked and how we can make it work again...... million new jobs, a balanced budget...incomes went up for everybody. manufacturing jobs went up also in the 1990s, if we're actually going to look at the facts. when i was in the senate, i had a number of trade deals that came before me, and i held them all to the same test. will they create jobs in america? will they raise incomes in america? and are they good for our national security? some of them i voted for. the biggest one, a multinational one known as cafta, i voted against. and because i hold the same standards as i look at all of these trade deals. but let's not assume that trade is the only challenge we have in the economy. i think it is a part of it, and i've said what i'm going to do. i'm going to have a special prosecutor. we're going to enforce the trade deals we have, and we're going to hold people accountable. when i was secretary of state, we actually increased american exports globally 30 percent. we increased them to china 50 percent. so i know how to really work to get new jobs and to get exports that helped to create more new jobs.well, i've been a senator, donald...and i have been a secretary of state...and i have done a lot...well, that's your opinion. that is your opinion. [interruption]well, that is just not accurate. i was against it once it was finally negotiated and the terms were laid out. i wrote about that in...no.well, donald, i know you live in your own reality, but that is not the facts. the facts are -- i did say i hoped it would be a good deal, but when it was negotiated...... which i was not responsible for, i concluded it wasn't. i wrote about that in my book...... before you even announced.look, there are differences...there are...there are different views about what's good for our country, our economy, and our leadership in the world. and i think it's important to look at what we need to do to get the economy going again. that's why i said new jobs with rising incomes, investments, not in more tax cuts that would add $5 trillion to the debt.but in -- oh, but i do.in fact, i have written a book about it. it's called "stronger together." you can pick it up tomorrow at a bookstore...... or at an airport near you.but it's because i see this -- we need to have strong growth, fair growth, sustained growth. we also have to look at how we help families balance the responsibilities at home and the responsibilities at business. so we have a very robust set of plans. and people have looked at both of our plans, have concluded that mine would create 10 million jobs and yours would lose us 3.5 million jobs, and explode the debt which would have a recession.that can't -- that can't be left to stand. [interruption]i kind of assumed that there would be a lot of these charges and claims, and so...so we have taken the home page of my website, hillaryclinton.com, and we've turned it into a fact-checker. so if you want to see in real-time what the facts are, please go and take a look. because what i have proposed...... would not add a penny to the debt, and your plans would add $5 trillion to the debt. what i have proposed would cut regulations and streamline them for small businesses. what i have proposed would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy, because they have made all the gains in the economy. and i think it's time that the wealthy and corporations paid their fair share to support this country.well, at least i have a plan to fight isis. [interruption]no, we're not. no, we're not.that's a -- that's -- go to the -- please, fact checkers, get to work.i have a feeling that by, the end of this evening, i'm going to be blamed for everything that's ever happened.why not? yeah, why not? (laughter) you know, just join the debate by saying more crazy things. now, let me say this, it is absolutely the case...yeah, well, let's start the clock again, lester. we've looked at your tax proposals. i don't see changes in the corporate tax rates or the kinds of proposals you're referring to that would cause the repatriation, bringing back of money that's stranded overseas. i happen to support that.i happen to -- i happen to support that in a way that will actually work to our benefit. but when i look at what you have proposed, you have what is called now the trump loophole, because it would so advantage you and the business you do. you've proposed an approach that has a...... $4 billion tax benefit for your family. and when you look at what you are proposing...... it is...... as i said, trumped-up trickle-down. trickle-down did not work. it got us into the mess we were in, in 2008 and 2009. slashing taxes on the wealthy hasn't worked. and a lot of really smart, wealthy people know that. and they are saying, hey, we need to do more to make the contributions we should be making to rebuild the middle class.i don't think top-down works in america. i think building the middle class, investing in the middle class, making college debt-free so more young people can get their education, helping people refinance their -- their debt from college at a lower rate. those are the kinds of things that will really boost the economy. broad-based, inclusive growth is what we need in america, not more advantages for people at the very top.well, i think you've seen another example of bait-and- switch here. for 40 years, everyone running for president has released their tax returns. you can go and see nearly, i think, 39, 40 years of our tax returns, but everyone has done it. we know the irs has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing it when you're under audit. so you've got to ask yourself, why won't he release his tax returns? and i think there may be a couple of reasons. first, maybe he's not as rich as he says he is. second, maybe he's not as charitable as he claims to be.third, we don't know all of his business dealings, but we have been told through investigative reporting that he owes about $650 million to wall street and foreign banks. or maybe he doesn't want the american people, all of you watching tonight, to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes, because the only years that anybody's ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and they showed he didn't pay any federal income tax.so if he's paid zero, that means zero for troops, zero for vets, zero for schools or health. and i think probably he's not all that enthusiastic about having the rest of our country see what the real reasons are, because it must be something really important, even terrible, that he's trying to hide. and the financial disclosure statements, they don't give you the tax rate. they don't give you all the details that tax returns would. and it just seems to me that this is something that the american people deserve to see. and i have no reason to believe that he's ever going to release his tax returns, because there's something he's hiding. and we'll guess. we'll keep guessing at what it might be that he's hiding. but i think the question is, were he ever to get near the white house, what would be those conflicts? who does he owe money to? well, he owes you the answers to that, and he should provide them.i do. you know, i made a mistake using a private e- mail.and if i had to do it over again, i would, obviously, do it differently. but i'm not going to make any excuses. it was a mistake, and i take responsibility for that.and maybe because you haven't paid any federal income tax for a lot of years. (applause) and the other thing i think is important...... is if your -- if your main claim to be president of the united states is your business, then i think we should talk about that. you know, your campaign manager said that you built a lot of businesses on the backs of little guys. and, indeed, i have met a lot of the people who were stiffed by you and your businesses, donald. i've met dishwashers, painters, architects, glass installers, marble installers, drapery installers, like my dad was, who you refused to pay when they finished the work that you asked them to do. we have an architect in the audience who designed one of your clubhouses at one of your golf courses. it's a beautiful facility. it immediately was put to use. and you wouldn't pay what the man needed to be paid, what he was charging you to do...well, to...do the thousands of people that you have stiffed over the course of your business not deserve some kind of apology from someone who has taken their labor, taken the goods that they produced, and then refused to pay them? i can only say that i'm certainly relieved that my late father never did business with you. he provided a good middle-class life for us, but the people he worked for, he expected the bargain to be kept on both sides. and when we talk about your business, you've taken business bankruptcy six times. there are a lot of great businesspeople that have never taken bankruptcy once. you call yourself the king of debt. you talk about leverage. you even at one time suggested that you would try to negotiate down the national debt of the united states.well, sometimes there's not a direct transfer of skills from business to government, but sometimes what happened in business would be really bad for government.and we need to be very clear about that.well, you're right. race remains a significant challenge in our country. unfortunately, race still determines too much, often determines where people live, determines what kind of education in their public schools they can get, and, yes, it determines how they're treated in the criminal justice system. we've just seen those two tragic examples in both tulsa and charlotte. and we've got to do several things at the same time. we have to restore trust between communities and the police. we have to work to make sure that our police are using the best training, the best techniques, that they're well prepared to use force only when necessary. everyone should be respected by the law, and everyone should respect the law.right now, that's not the case in a lot of our neighborhoods. so i have, ever since the first day of my campaign, called for criminal justice reform. i've laid out a platform that i think would begin to remedy some of the problems we have in the criminal justice system. but we also have to recognize, in addition to the challenges that we face with policing, there are so many good, brave police officers who equally want reform. so we have to bring communities together in order to begin working on that, as a mutual goal. and we've got to get guns out of the hands of people who should not have them. the gun epidemic is the leading cause of death of young african-american men, more than the next nine causes put together. so we have to do two things, as i said. we have to restore trust. we have to work with the police. we have to make sure they respect the communities and the communities respect them. and we have to tackle the plague of gun violence, which is a big contributor to a lot of the problems that we’re seeing today.well, i've heard donald say this at his rallies, and it's really unfortunate that he paints such a dire negative picture of black communities in our country.the vibrancy of the black church, the black businesses that employ so many people, the opportunities that so many families are working to provide for their kids. there's a lot that we should be proud of and we should be supporting and lifting up. but we do always have to make sure we keep people safe. there are the right ways of doing it, and then there are ways that are ineffective. stop and frisk was found to be unconstitutional, and in part because it was ineffective. it did not do what it needed to do. now, i believe in community policing, and in fact violent crime is one half of what it was in 1991. property crime is down 40 percent. we just don't want to see it creep back up. we've had 25 years of very good cooperation.but there were some problems, some unintended consequences. too many young african-american and latino men ended up in jail for nonviolent offenses, and it's just a fact that if you're a young african-american man and you do the same thing as a young white man, you are more likely to be arrested, charged, convicted and incarcerated. so we've got to address the systemic racism in our criminal justice system. we cannot just say law and order. we have to say -- we have to come forward with a plan that is going to divert people from the criminal justice system, deal with mandatory minimum sentences, which have put too many people away for too long, for doing too little. we need to have more second-chance programs. i'm glad that we're ending private prisons in the federal system. i want to see them ended in the state system. you shouldn't have a profit motivation to fill prison cells with young americans.so there are some positive ways we can work on this. and i believe strongly that common sense gun safety measures would assist us right now, and this is something donald has supported along with the gun lobby. right now we’ve got too many military style weapons on the streets, in a lot of places our police are outgunned. we need comprehensive background checks, and we need to keep guns out of the hands of those who will do harm. and we finally need to pass a prohibition on anyone who's on the terrorist watchlist from being able to buy a gun in our country. if you're too dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun. there are things we can do and we ought to do it in a bipartisan way.lester, i think implicit bias is a problem for everyone, not just police. i think unfortunately, too many of us in our great country, um, jump to conclusions about each other. and therefore, i think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about, you know, why am i feeling this way? but when it comes to policing, since it can have, literally, fatal consequences, i have said in my first budget, we would put money into that budget to help us deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers. i've met with a group of very distinguished, experienced police chiefs a few weeks ago. they admit it's an issue. they've got a lot of concerns. mental health is one of the biggest concerns, because now police are having to handle a lot of really difficult mental health problems on the street. they want support, they want more training, they want more assistance. and i think the federal government could be in a position where we would offer and provide that.it's also fair to say, if we're going to talk about mayors, that under the current mayor, crime has continued to drop, including murders.no, i'm not.new york has done an excellent job. i give credit across the board going back two mayors, two police chiefs, it has worked. and other communities need to come together to do what will work as well. look, one murder is too many. but it is important that we learn about what has been effective, and not go to things that sound good that really did not have the kind of impact that we would want. who disagrees with keeping neighborhoods safe? but let's also add, no one should disagree about respecting the rights of young men who live in those neighborhoods. we need to do a better job of working again with the communities, faith communities, business communities, as well as the police to try to deal with this problem.i think donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. and yes, i did. and you know what else i prepared for? i prepared to be president. and i think that's a good thing. (applause)well, just listen to what you heard. and clearly, as donald just admitted, he knew he was going to stand on this debate stage, and lester holt was going to be asking us questions, he tried to put the whole racist birther lie to bed. but it can't be dismissed that easily. he has really started his political activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an american citizen. there was absolutely no evidence for it, he persisted, he persisted year after year, because some of his supporters, people that he was trying to bring into his fold, apparently believed it or wanted to believe it.but remember. donald started his career back in 1973 being sued by the justice department for racial discrimination. because he would not rent apartments in one of his developments to african-americans, and he made sure that the people who worked for him understood that was the policy. he actually was sued twice by the justice department. so he has a long record of engaging in racist behavior. and the birther lie was a very hurtful one. barack obama is a man of great dignity. and i could tell how much it bothered him and annoyed him is that this was being touted and used against him. but i would like to remember what michelle obama said in her amazing speech at our democratic national convention. when they go low, we go high. and barack obama went high, despite donald trump's best efforts to bring him down.well i, think cybersecurity, cyberwarfare, will be one of the biggest challenges facing the next president, because clearly we're facing at this point, two different kinds of adversaries. there are the independent hacking groups that do it mostly for commercial reasons to try to steal information that they then can use to make money. but increasingly, we are seeing cyberattacks coming from states. organs of states. the most recent and troubling of these has been russia. there's no doubt now that russia has used cyberattacks against all kinds of organizations in our country, and i am deeply concerned about this. i know donald is very praise -- praiseworthy of vladimir putin. but putin is playing a very tough, long game here. and one of the things he's done is to let loose cyber attackers to hack into government files, to hack into personal files, hack into the democratic national committee. and we recently have learned that this is one of their preferred methods of trying to wreak havoc and collect information.we need to make it very clear, whether it's russia, china, iran, or anybody else, the united states has much greater capacity. and we are not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go after our information, our private sector information or our public sector information, and we're going to have to make it clear that we don't want to use the kinds of tools that we have. we don't want to engage in a different kind of warfare. but we will defend the citizens of this country, and the russians need to understand that. i think they've been treating it as almost a probing, how far would we go? how much would we do? and that's why i was so, i was so shocked when donald publicly invited putin to hack into americans. that is, that is just unacceptable. it's one of the reasons why 50 national security officials who served in republican administration ---- have said that donald is unfit to be the commander-in-chief. it's comments like that that really worry people who understand the threats that we face.well, i think there are a number of issues that we should be addressing. i have put forth a plan to defeat isis. it does involve going after them online. i think we need do much more with our tech companies to prevent isis and their operatives from being able to use the internet, to radicalize, even direct people in our country and europe and elsewhere, but we also have to intensify our airstrikes against isis and eventually support our arab and kurdish partners to be able to actually take out isis in raqqah and their claim of being a caliphate. we're making progress. our military is assisting in iraq. and we're hoping that within the year we'll be able to push isis out of iraq and really squeeze them in syria. but we have to be cognizant of the fact that they've had foreign fighters coming to volunteer for them, foreign money, foreign weapons, so we have to make this the top priority. and i would also do everything possible to take out their leadership. i was involved in a number efforts to take out al-qaeda leadership when i was secretary of state, including of course taking out bin laden, and i think we need to go after baghdadi as well, make that one of our organizing principles. because we've got to defeat isis and we’ve got to do everything we can to disrupt their propaganda efforts online.well, i hope the fact checkers are turning up the volume and really working hard. donald supported the invasion of iraq.that is absolutely --proved over and over again.he actually advocated for the actions we took in libya and urged that gaddafi be taken out, after actually doing some business with him one time. but the larger point, he says this constantly, is george w. bush made the agreement about when american troops would leave iraq. not barack obama. and the only way that american troops could have stayed in iraq is to get an agreement from the then iraqi government that would have protected our troops. and the iraqi government would not give that. but let's talk about the question you asked, lester. the question you asked is what do we do here in the united states. that's the most important part of this. how do we prevent attacks? how do we protect our people? and i think we've got to have an intelligence surge, where we are looking for every scrap of information. i was so proud of law enforcement in new york, in minnesota, in new jersey, you know, they responded so quickly, so professionally to the attacks that occurred by rahami and they brought him down.and we may find out more information because he is still alive, which may prove to be an intelligence benefit. so we’ve got to do everything we can to vacuum up intelligence from europe, from the middle east, and that means we have to work more closely with our allies, and that’s something that donald has been very dismissive of. we're working with nato, the longest military alliance in the history of the world, to really turn our attention to terrorism. we’re working with our friends in the middle east, many of which, as you know, are muslim majority nations. donald has consistently insulted muslims abroad, muslims at home, when we need to be cooperating with muslim nations and with the american muslim community. they're on the front lines. they can provide information to us that we might not get anywhere else. they need to have close working cooperation with law enforcement in these communities, not be alienated and pushed away, as some of donald’s rhetoric has unfortunately led to.lester, we've covered this ground.woo, okay. (laughter)let's talk about two important issues that were briefly mentioned by donald. first, nato. nato, as a military alliance has something called article v. and basically it says this, an attack on one is an attack on all. and do you know the only time it's ever been invoked after 9/11? when the 28 nations nato said that they would go to afghanistan with us to fight terrorism. something that they still are doing by our side. with respect to iran, when i became secretary of state iran was weeks away from having enough nuclear material to form a bomb. they had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle under the bush administration. they had built covert facilities, stocked them with centrifuges that were whirling away. and we had sanctioned them. i voted for every sanction against iran when i was in the senate, but it wasn't enough. so i spent a year and a half putting together a coalition that included russia and china, to impose the toughest sanctions on iran, and we did drive them to the negotiating table. and my successor, john kerry and president obama got a deal that put a lid on iran's nuclear program. without firing a single shot. that's diplomacy. that's coalition building. that's working with other nations. the other day, i saw donald saying that there were some iranian sailors on a ship in the waters off of iran, and they were taunting american sailors who were on a nearby ship. he said, you know, if they taunted our sailors, i'd blow them out of the water and start another war. that's --that's bad judgment. that is not the right temperament to be commander in chief, to be taunted and the worst part --the worst part of what i heard donald say has been about nuclear weapons. he has said repeatedly that he didn't care if other countries got nuclear weapon, japan, south korea even saudi arabia. it has been the policy of the united states, democrats and republicans, to do everything we could to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. he even said if there were nuclear war in east asia, that's fine, you know.have a good time, folks.and in fact, his cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons is so deeply troubling. that is the number one threat we face in the world, and it becomes particularly threatening if terrorists ever get their hands on any nuclear material. so a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not have his fingers anywhere near the nuclear codes. as far as i think anyone with any sense about this should be concerned.it's a good one, though, well describes the problem.let me start by saying words matter. words matter when you run for president, and they really matter when you are president. and i want to reassure our allies in japan and south korea and elsewhere that we have mutual defense treaties, and we will honor them. it is essential that america's word be good. and so i know that this campaign has caused some questioning and some worries on the part of many leaders across the globe. i've talked with a number of them. but i want to, on behalf of myself, and i think on behalf of a majority of the american people say that, you know, our word is good. it's also important that we look at the entire global situation. there's no doubt that we have other problems with iran, but personally, i'd rather deal with the other problems having put that lid on their nuclear program than still to be facing that. and donald never tells you what he would do. would he have started a war? would he have bombed iran? if he's going to criticize a deal that has been very successful in giving us access to iranian facilities that we never had before, then he should tell us what his alternative would be.but it's like his plan to defeat isis. he says it's a secret plan, but the only secret is that he has no plan. so we need to be more precise in how we talk about these issues. people around the world follow our presidential campaigns so closely, trying to get hints about what we will do. can they rely on us? are we going to lead the world with strength and in accordance with our values? that's what i intend to do. i intend to be a leader of our country that people can count on both here at home and around the world to make decisions that will further peace and prosperity but also stand up to bullies, whether they're abroad or at home. we cannot let those who would try to destabilize the world, to interfere with american interests and security ---- if given any opportunities at all.well, as soon as he travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease-fire, a release of dissidents, an opening of new opportunities in nations around the world or even spends 11 hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about stamina.one thing, lester. he tried to switch from looks to stamina. but this is a man who has called women pigs, slobs, and dogs. and someone who has said pregnancy is an inconvenience to employers, who has said --women don't deserve equal pay unless they do as good a job as men.and one of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest. he loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them. and he called this woman ms. piggy. then he called her ms. housekeeping, because she was latina. donald, she has a name.her name is alicia machado and she has become a u.s. citizen, and you can bet she's going to vote this november.well, i support our democracy. and sometimes you win. sometimes you lose. but i certainly will support the outcome of this election. and i know donald's trying very hard to plant doubts about it, but i hope the people out therethank you. are you a teacher? yes, i think that's a very good question because i heard from lots of teachers and parents about some of our concerns about some of the things being said and done in this campaign. and i think it is very important for us to make clear to our children that our country really is great because we are good. and we are going to respect one another, lift each other up. we are going to be looking for ways to celebrate our diversity and we are going to try to reach out to every boy and girl as well as every adult to bring them into working on behalf of our country. i have a positive and optimistic view of what we can do together. that’s why the slogan of my campaign is stronger together. because i think if we work together, if we overcome the divisiveness that sometimes sets americans against one another and instead we make some big goals and i’ve set forth some big goals, getting the economy to work for everyone, not just those at the top. making sure we have the best education from preschool through college and making it affordable and so much else. if we set those goals and we go together to try to achieve them, there is nothing, in my opinion, america can't do. i hope we will all come together in this campaign. obviously i'm hoping to earn your vote, i’m hoping to be elected in november and i can promise you i will work with every american. i want to be the president for all americans regardless of your political beliefs, what you look like, your religion. i want us to heal our country and bring it together. because that's, i think, the best way to get the future that our children and grandchildren deserve.well, like everyone else, i’ve spent a lot of time thinking over the last 48 hours about what we heard and saw. you know, with prior republican nominees for president, i disagreed with them on politics, policies, principles, but i never questioned their fitness to serve. donald trump is different. i said starting back in june that he was not fit to be president and commander in chief. and many republicans and independents have said the same thing. what we all saw and heard on friday was donald talking about women, what he thinks about women, what he does to women, and he has said that the video doesn’t represent who he is. but i think it's clear to anyone who heard it, that it represents exactly who he is. because we have seen this throughout the campaign. we have seen him insult women. we have seen him rate women on their appearance, ranking them from one to ten, we’ve seen him embarrass women on tv and on twitter. we saw him after the first debate, spend nearly a week denigrating a former miss universe in the harshest, most personal terms. so, yes, this is who donald trump is. but it's not only women and it’s not only this video that raises questions about his fitness to be our president. because he has also targeted immigrants, african-americans, latinos, people with disabilities, pows, muslims and so many others. so this is who donald trump is. and the question for us, the question our country must answer is that this is not who we are. that's why to go back to your question, i want to send a message. we all should, to every boy and girl and indeed, to the entire world. that america already is great, but we are great because we are good. and we will respect one another and we will work with one another and we will celebrate our diversity. these are very important values to me because this is the america that i know and love. and i can pledge to you tonight that this is the america that i will serve if i'm so fortunate enough to become your president.well, first let me start by saying that so much of what he just said is not right, but he gets to run his campaign any way he chooses. he gets to decide what he wants to talk about instead of answering people's questions, talking about our agenda, laying out the plans that we have that we think can make a better life and a better country. that's his choice. when i hear something like that, i am reminded of what my friend michelle obama advised us all. when they go low, you go high. [ applause ] and look, if this were just about one video, maybe what he is saying tonight would be understandable. but everyone can draw their own conclusions at this point about whether or not the man in the video or the man on the stage respects women. but he never apologizes for anything to anyone. he never apologized to mr. and mrs. khan, the gold star family whose son, captain khan died in the line of duty in iraq and donald insulted and attacked them for weeks over their religion. he never apologized to the distinguished federal judge who was born in indiana, but donald said he couldn't be trusted to be a judge because his parents were "mexican." he never apologized to the reporter that he mimicked and mocked on national television and our children were watching. and he never apologized for the racist lie that president obama was not born in the united states of america. he owes the president an apology and he owes our country an apology and he needs to take responsibility for his actions and his words.everything he just said is absolutely false, but i’m not surprised. in the first debate, i told people it would be impossible to be fact checking donald all the time. i would never get to talk about anything i’d want to do and how we’re really, going to really, make lives better for people. so once again, go to hillaryclinton.com. we have literally trump - you can fact check him in real time. last time at the first debate ,we had millions of people fact checking so i expect we will have millions more fact checking because, you know, it's just awfully good that someone with the temperament of donald trump is not in charge of the law in our country.well, martha, first let me say, and i said it before but i will repeat it because i want everyone to hear it. that was a mistake and i take responsibility for using a personal email account. obviously, if i were to do it over again, i would not. i am not making any excuses, it was a mistake. and i am very sorry about that, but i think it's also important to point out where there are some misleading accusations from critics and others. after a year long investigation, there is no evidence that anyone hacked the server i was using and there is no evidence that anyone can point to at all, anyone who says otherwise has no basis, that any classified materials ended up in the wrong hands. i take classified materials very seriously and always have. when i was on the senate armed services committee, i was privy to a lot of classified material. obviously, as secretary of state i had some of the most important secrets that we possess, such as going after bin laden. so, i am very committed to taking classified information seriously and as i said, there is no evidence that any classified information ended up in the wrong hands.it's just not true.they were personal e-mails and not official. we turned over 35,000.yes, that's true. i didn't.i didn’t in the first debate and i’m gonna try not to on this debate because i would like to get to the questions people brought to us tonight.okay, donald. i know you are into big diversion tonight, anything to avoid talking about your campaign and the way it’s exploding, and the way republicans are leaving you, but --let’s get to the issues that people care about tonight. let's get to their question.he wants to start it, he can start it. no, go ahead, donald.i think donald was about to say he’s gonna solve it by repealing it and getting rid of the affordable care act. and i'm going to fix it because i agree with you. premiums have gotten too high, copays, deductibles, prescription drug costs and i have laid out a series of actions that we can take to try to get those costs down. but here's what i don't want people to forget when we’re talking about reigning in the cost that has to be the highest priority of the next president. when the affordable care act passed, it wasn't just that 20 million people got insurance who didn't have it before. but that, in and of itself is a good thing. i meet these people all the time and they tell me what a difference having that insurance meant to them and their families. but everybody else, the 170 million of us who get health insurance through our employers got big benefits. number one, insurance companies can't deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. number two, no lifetime limits which is a big deal if you have serious health problems. number three, women can't be charged more than men for our health insurance, which is the way it used to be before the affordable care act. number four, if you are under 26 and your parents have a policy, you can be on that policy until the age of 26, something that didn't happen before. so i want very much to save what works and is good about the affordable care act. but we’ve got to get costs down, we’ve got to provide some additional help to small businesses so that they can afford to provide health insurance. but if we repeal it as donald has proposed and start over again, all of those benefits i mentioned are lost to everybody. not just people who get health insurance on the exchange. and then we would have to start all over again. right now we are at 90% health insurance coverage. that's the highest we have ever been, in our country. i want to get to 100% and get cost down and quality up.no. i mean, he clarified what he meant and it’s very clear. look, we are in a situation in our country where if we were to start all over again, we might come up with a different system. but we have an employer-based--your child had asthma, you may not be able to have insurance because you can't afford it. so let's fix what's broken about it, but let’s not throw it away and give it back to the insurance companies. that's not going to work.thank you for asking your question and i’ve heard this question from a lot of muslim americans across our country. because unfortunately there has been a lot of very divise, dark things said about muslims. and even someone like captain khan, the young man who sacrificed himself defending our country in the united states army has been subject to attack by donald. i want to say just a couple of things.first of all, i will not let anyone into our country that i think poses a risk to us. but there are a lot of refugees, women and children, think of that picture we all saw of that 4-year-old boy with the blood on his forehead because he’d been bombed by the russian and syrian air forces. there are children suffering in this catastrophic war, largely, i believe because of russian aggression. and we need to do our part. we, by no means, are carrying anywhere near the load that europe and others are. but we will have vetting that is as tough as it needs to be from our professionals, our intelligence experts and others. but it is important for us as a policy not to say, as donald has said, we’re going to ban people based on a religion. how do you that? we are a country founded on religious freedom and liberty. how do we do what he has advocated without causing great distress within our own country? are we going to have religious tests when people fly into our country and how do we expect to be able to implement those? so i thought that what he said was extremely unwise and even dangerous and indeed you can look at the propaganda on a lot of the terrorist sites and what donald trump says about muslims is used to recruit fighters. because they want to create a war between us. and the final thing i say, this is the 10th or 12th time he denied being for the war in iraq. we have it on tape, the entire press corps has looked at it, it’s been debunked but it never stops him from saying whatever he wants to say. go to hillaryclinton.com.go to hillaryclinton.com and you can see it.right. as i recall, that was something i said about abraham lincoln after having seen the wonderful steven spielberg movie called lincoln. it was a master class watching president lincoln get the congress to approve the 13th amendment. it was principled and it was strategic and i was making the point that it is hard, sometimes, to get the congress to do what you want to do. and you have to keep working at it and yes, president lincoln was trying to convince some people, he used some arguments, convincing other people, he used other arguments. that was a great, i thought, a great display of presidential leadership. but, you know, let's talk about what's really going on here, martha because our intelligence community just came out and said in the last few days that the kremlin, meaning putin and the russian government, are directing the attacks, the hacking on american accounts to influence our election. and wikileaks is part of that as are other sites where the russians hack information, we don't even know if it's accurate information and then they put it out. we have never in the history of our country been in a situation where an adversary, a foreign power, is working so hard to influence the outcome of the election, and believe, they’re not doing it to get me elected. they are doing it to try to influence the election for donald trump. now, maybe because he praised putin, maybe because he says he agrees with a lot of what putin wants to do, maybe because he wants to do business in moscow. i don’t know the reasons, but we deserve answers, and should demand that donald release all of his tax returns so that people can see what are the entanglements and the financial relationships--well, everything you’ve heard from donald is not true. i'm sorry i have to keep saying this, but he lives in an alternative reality. and it is sort of amusing to hear somebody who hasn't paid federal income taxes in maybe 20 years talking about what he’s going to do, but i’ll tell you what he’s going to do. his plan will give the wealthy and corporations the biggest tax cuts they have ever had. more than the bush tax cuts by at least a factor of two. donald always takes care of donald and people like donald. and this would be a massive gift. and indeed the way that he talks about his tax cuts would end up raising taxes on middle class families. millions of middle class families. now, here's what i want to do. i have said nobody who makes less than $250,000 a year and that's the vast majority of americans, as you know will have their taxes raised. because i think we have got to go where the money is and the money is with people who have taken advantage of every single break in the tax code. and yes, when i was a senator, i did vote to close corporate loopholes. i voted to close, i think, one of the loopholes he took advantage of when he claimed a billion dollar loss that enabled him to avoid paying taxes. i want to have a tax on people who are making a million dollars, it's called the buffett rule. yes, warren buffett is the one who’s gone out and said somebody like him should not be paying a lower tax rate than his secretary. i wanna have a surcharge on incomes above 5 million. we have to make up for lost times, because i want to invest in you, i want to invest in hard working families. and i think it has been unfortunate, but it's happened, that since the great recession, the gains have all gone to the top. and we need to reverse that. people like donald who paid zero in taxes, zero for our vets, zero for our military, zero for health and education. that is wrong. and we’re going to make sure that nobody, no corporation and no individual can get away without paying his fair share to support our country.well, here we go again. i have been in favor of getting rid of carried interest for years starting when i was a senator from new york. but that's not the point here.because i was a senator with a republican president.you know, under our constitution, presidents have something called veto power. look, he has now said repeatedly 30 years this and 30 years that. so let me talk about my 30 years in public service. i'm very glad to do so. eight million kids every year have health insurance because when i was first lady i worked with democrats and republicans to create the children's health insurance program. hundreds of thousands of kids now have a chance to be adopted because i worked to change our adoption and foster care system. after 9/11, i went to work with republican mayor, governor and president to rebuild new york and to get health care for our first responders who were suffering because they had run towards danger and gotten sickened by it. hundreds of thousands of national guard and reserve members have healthcare because of work that i did and children have safer medicines because i was able to pass a law that required the dosing to be more carefully done. when i was secretary of state, i went around the world advocating for our country, but also advocating for women's rights to make sure that women had a decent chance to have a better life and negotiated a treaty with russia to lower nuclear weapons. 400 pieces of legislation have my name on it as a sponsor or cosponsor when i was a senator for eight years. i worked very hard and was proud to be reelected in new york by an even bigger margin than i had been elected the first time. and as president, i will take that work, that bipartisan work, that finding common ground. because you have to be able to get along with people to get things done in washington. and i have proven that i can and for thirty years, i’ve produced results for the people.the situation in syria is catastrophic and everyday that goes by, we see the results of the regime, by assad in partnership with the iranians on the ground and the russians in the air, bombarding places in particular aleppo, where there are hundreds of thousands of people, probably about 250,000 people still left. and there is a determined effort by the russian air force to destroy aleppo in order to eliminate the last of the syrian rebels who are really holding out against the assad regime. russia hasn't paid any attention to isis. they are interested in keeping assad in power. so i, when i was secretary of state advocated, and i advocate today a no-fly and safe zones. we need some leverage with the russians because they are not going to come to the negotiating table for a diplomatic resolution unless there is leverage over them. and we have to work more closely with our partners and allies on the ground. but i want to emphasize that what is at stake here is the ambitions and aggressiveness of russia. russia has decided it is all in in syria, and they’ve also decided who they want to see become president of the united states too and it's not me. i stood up to russia; i’ve taken on putin and others and i would do that as president. i think wherever we can cooperate with russia, that's fine and i did, as secretary of state, that's how we got a treaty reducing nuclear weapons, it’s how we got the sanctions on iran that put a lid on the nuclear weapons program without firing a single shot. so i would go with more leverage than we have now. but i support the efforts to investigate for crimes, war crimes, committed by the syrians and the russians and try to hold them accountable.no i wasn't, i was gone. i hate to interrupt you. at some point we need to get the facts out.i would not use american ground forces in syria. i think that would be a very serious mistake. i don't think american troops should be holding territory which is what they would have to do as an occupying force. i don't think that is a smart strategy. i do think the use of special forces, which we’re using, the use of enablers and trainers in iraq, which has had positive effects, are very much in our interests. so i do support what is happening.martha, i hope that by the time i am president that we will have pushed isis out of iraq. i do think that there is a good chance that we can take mosul. and you know, donald said he knows more about isis than the generals. no, he doesn't. there are a lot of very important planning going on and some of it is to signal to the sunnis in the are,a as well as kurdish peshmerga fighters that we all need to be in this. and that takes a lot of planning and preparation. i would go after baghdadi . i would specifically target baghdadi. because i think our targeting of al qaeda leaders, and i was involved in a lot of those operations, highly classified ones, made a difference. i think that could help. i would consider arming the kurds. the kurds have been our best partners in syria, as well as iraq. and i know there’s a lot of concern about that in some circles, but they should have the equipment they need so that kurdish and arab fighters on the ground are the principal way we take raqqa after pushing isis out of iraq.well, 67% of the people voted to reelect me when i ran for my second term, and i was very proud and very humbled by that. mr. carter, i have tried my entire life to do what i can to support children and families. you know, right out of law school i went to work for the children's defense fund. donald talks a lot about the 30 years i’ve been in public service. i’m proud of that. you know, i started off as a young lawyer working against discrimination against african-american children and schools and in the criminal justice system. i worked to make sure that kids with disabilities could get a public education, something i cared very much about. i worked with latinos, one of my favorite jobs in politics was down in south texas registering latino citizens to be able to vote. so i have a deep devotion, to use your absolutely correct words, to making sure that every american feels like he or she has a place in our country. and i think when you look at the letters that i get, a lot of people are worried that maybe they wouldn't have a place in donald trump's america. they write me and one woman wrote me about her son, felix. she adopted him from ethiopia when he was a toddler. he is 10 years old now. this is the only country he has ever known. and he listens to donald on tv and he said to his mother onewell within hours i said i was sorry about the way i talked about that because my argument is not with his supporters, it's with him and the divisive campaign he has run and the inciting of violence at his rallies and the very brutal kinds of comments about not just women, but all americans. all kinds of americans. and what he said about african-americans and latinos, about muslims, about pows, about immigrants, about people with disabilities, he’s never apologized for. so i do think that a lot of tone and tenor... i am proud of the campaigns bernie sanders and i ran. we ran a campaign based on issue, not insults. he is supporting me 100% because we talked about what we wanted to do. we might have had differences and we had a lot of debate, but we believed that we could make the country better and i was proud of that.no.well, it's not only my opinion, but it's the opinion of many others. national security experts, republicans, former republican members of congress. but it’s in part because those of us who have had the great privilege of seeing this job up close and know how difficult it is and it's not just because i watched my husband take a $300 billion deficit and turn it into a $200 billion surplus and 23 million new jobs were created and incomes went up for everybody. everybody. african-american incomes went up 33%. and it’s not just because worked with george w. bush after 9/11 and i was very proud that when i told them what the city need and what we needed to recover, he said you got it and he never wavered. he stuck with me. and i have worked and i admire president obama. he inherited the worst financial crisis since the great depression. that was a terrible time for our country.9 million people lost their jobs, five million homes were lost.and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. we are back on the right track. he would send us back into a recession with his tax plan.thank you. you are right. this is one of the most important issues in this election. i want to appoint supreme court justices who understand the way the world really works, who have real life experience. who have not just been in a big law firm and maybe clerked for a judge and then gotten on the bench, but maybe they tried more cases. actually understand what people are up against. because i think the current court has gone in the wrong direction. i would want to see the supreme court reverse citizens united and get dark unaccountable money out of our politics. donald doesn't agree with that. i would like the supreme court to understand that voting rights are a big problem in many parts of the country. that we don't do always do everything we can to make it possible for people of color and older people and young people to be able to exercise their franchise. i want a supreme court that will stick with roe v. wade and a woman’s right to choose, and i want a supreme court that will stick with marriage equality. now, donald put forth of the names of people he would consider. and among the ones that he has suggested are people who would reverse roe v. wade and reverse marriage equality. i think that would would be a terrible mistake and take us backwards. i want a supreme court that doesn’t always side with corporate interests. i want a supreme court that understands because you are wealthy and you can give more money to something doesn’t mean you have more rights or should have any more rights than anything else. so i have clear views about what i want to see to change the balance on the supreme court and i regret deeply that the senate has not done its job and they have not permitted a vote on the person that president obama, a highly qualified person. they have not given him a vote to be able to have the full complement of nine supreme court justices. i think that was a dereliction of duty. i hope they will see their way to doing it, but if i am so fortunate as to be president, i will immediately move to make sure that we fill that. we have nine justices and that they get to work on behalf of our people.the question was about the supreme court. i respect the second amendment, but i believe there should be background checks and we should close the gun show loophole and close the online loophole...well, that was very interesting. first of all, china is illegally dumping steel in the united states and donald trump is buying it to build his buildings, putting steelworkers and american steel plants out of business. that's something that i fought against as a senator and something i would have a trade prosecutor to make sure we don't get taken advantage of by china on steel or anything else. you know because it sounds like you are in the business or you’re aware of people in the business. you know that we are now for the first time energy independent. we are not dependent on the middle east, but the middle east controls a lot of prices. so the price of oil has been way down and that has a damaging effect on a lot the oil companies, right? we are however producing a lot of natural gas that serves as a bridge to more renewable fuels and i think that's an important transition. we’ve got to remain energy independent. it gives us much more power and freedom than to be worried about what goes on in the middle east. we have enough worried over there without having to worry about that. so i have a comprehensive energy policy, but it really does include fighting climate change because i think that is a serious problem. and i support moving towards more clean renewable energy as quickly as we can. because i think we can be the 21st century clean energy superpower and create millions of new jobs and businesses. but i want to be sure that we don't leave people behind. that’s why i'm the only candidate from the very beginning of this campaign who had a plan to help us revitalize coal country. because those coal miners and their fathers and grandfathers, they dug that coal out, a lot of them lost their lives. they were injured. but they turn the lights on and powered our factories. i don't want to walk away from them. so we’ve got to do something for them. but the price of coal is down worldwide. we have to look at this comprehensively and that's what i have proposed. i hope you will go to hillaryclinton.com and read my entire policy.well, i certainly will, because i think that's a very fair and important question. well, i respect his children. his children are incredibly able and devoted and i think that says a lot about donald. i don't agree with nearly anything else he says or does, but i do respect that and think that is something that as a mother and a grandmother is very important to me. so i believe that this election has become in part so conflict-oriented, so intense because there is a lot at stake. this is not an ordinary time and this is not an ordinary election. we are going to be choosing a president who will set policy for not just four or eight years, but because some of the important decisions we have to make at home and around the world from the supreme court to energy and so much else, and so there is a lot at stake it's one of the most consequential elections that we’ve had — and that's why i tried to put forth specific policies and plans — trying to get it off of the personal and put it on to what it is on i want to do as president. and that's why i hope people will check on that for themselves. so that they can see that yes, i spent 30 years, actually a little more, working to help kids and families and i want to take all that experience to the white house and do that every single day.thank you very much chris and thanks to unlv for hosting us. you know, i think when we talk about the supreme court, it really raises the central issue in this election. namely, what kind of country are we going to be? what kind of opportunities will we provide for our citizens? what kind of rights will americans have? and i feel strongly that the supreme court needs to stand on the side of the american people. not on the side of the powerful corporations and the wealthy. for me, that means that we need a supreme court that will stand up on behalf of women's rights, on behalf of the rights of the lgbt community, that will stand up and say no to citizens united, a decision that has undermined the election system in our country because of the way it permits dark, unaccountable money to come into our electoral system. i have major disagreements with my opponent about these issues and others that will be before the supreme court. but i feel that at this point in our country's history, it is important that we not reverse marriage equality, that we not reverse roe v. wade, that we stand up against citizens united, we stand up for the rights of people in the workplace, that we stand up and basically say, the supreme court should represent all of us. that's how i see the court. and the kind of people that i would be looking to nominate to the court would be in the great tradition of standing up to the powerful, standing up on behalf of our rights as americans. and i look forward to having that opportunity. i would hope that the senate would do its job and confirm the nominee that president obama has sent to them. that's the way the constitution fundamentally should operate. the president nominates and the senate advises and consents or not. but they go forward with the process.well, first of all, i support the second amendment. i lived in arkansas for 18 wonderful years. i represented upstate new york. i understand and respect the tradition of gun ownership that goes back to the founding of our country, but i also believe that there can be and must be reasonable regulation. because i support the second amendment doesn't mean that i want people who shouldn't have guns to be able to threaten you, kill you or members of your family. and so when i think about what we need to do, we have 33,000 people a year who die from guns. i think we need comprehensive background checks, need to close the online loophole, close the gun show loophole. there’s other matters that i think are sensible, that are the kinds of reforms that would make a difference, that are not in any way conflicting with the second amendment. you mentioned the heller decision and what i was saying that you referenced, chris, was that i disagreed with the way the court applied the second amendment in that case. because what the district of columbia was trying to do was to protect toddlers from guns. and so they wanted people with guns to safely store them. and the court did not accept that reasonable regulation but they've accepted many others. so i see no conflict between saving people's lives and defending the second amendment.well, i was upset because unfortunately, dozens of toddlers injure themselves, even kill people with guns because unfortunately, not everyone who has loaded guns in their homes takes appropriate precautions. but there is no doubt that i respect the second amendment. that i also believe there is an individual right to bear arms. that is not in conflict with sensible, common sense regulation. and you know, look. i understand that donald has been strongly supported by the nra, the gun lobby is on his side. they're running millions of dollars of ads against me and i regret that because what i would like to see is for people to come together and say, of course we're going to protect and defend the second amendment. but we're going to do it in a way that tries to save some of these 33,000 lives that we lose every year.well, i strongly support roe v. wade which guarantees a constitutional right to a woman to make the most intimate, most difficult in many cases, decisions about her health care that one can imagine. and in this case, it is not only about roe v. wade. it is about what is happening right now in america. so many states are putting very stringent regulations on women that block them from exercising that choice to the extent that they are defunding planned parenthood which, of course provides all kinds of cancer screenings and other benefits for women in our country. donald has said he is in favor of defunding planned parenthood. he even supported shutting the government down to defund planned parenthood. i will defend planned parenthood. i will defend roe v. wade and i will defend women's rights to make their own healthcare decisions. we have come too far to have that turn back now. and indeed, he said women should be punished. there should be some form of punishment for women who obtain abortions. and i could just not be more opposed to that kind of thinking.because roe v. wade very clearly sets out that there can be regulations on abortion so long as the life and the health of the mother are taken into account. and when i voted as a senator, i did not think that that was the case. the kinds of cases that fall at the end of pregnancy are often the most heartbreaking, painful decisions for families to make. i have met with women who have, toward the end of their pregnancy, get the worst news one could get. that their health is in jeopardy if they continue to carry to term. or that something terrible has happened or just been discovered about the pregnancy. i do not think the united states government should be stepping in and making those most personal of decisions. so you can regulate if you are doing so with the life and the health of the mother taken into account.well that is not what happens in these cases. and using that kind of scare rhetoric is just terribly unfortunate. you should meet with some of the women i've met with. women i've known over the course of my life. this is one of the worst possible choices that any woman and her family has to make. and i do not believe the government should be making it. you know, i've had the great honor of traveling across the world on behalf of our country. i've been to countries where governments either forced women to have abortions, like they used to do in china, or forced women to bear children like they used to do in romania. and i can tell you the government has no business in the decisions that women make with their families in accordance with their faith, with medical advice. and i will stand up for that right.well, as he was talking, i was thinking about a young girl i met here in las vegas, carla who is very worried that her parents might be deported because she was born in this country but they were not. they work hard. they do everything they can to give her a good life. and you're right. i don't want to rip families apart. i don't want to be sending families away from children. i don't want to see the deportation force that donald has talked about in action in our country. we have 11 million undocumented people. they have 4 million american citizen children. 15 million people. he said as recently as a few weeks ago in phoenix, that every undocumented person would be subject to deportation. here's with a that means. it means you would have to have a massive law enforcement presence where law enforcement officers would be going school to school, home to home, business to business. rounding up people who are undocumented. and we would then to have put them on trains, on buses to get them out of our country. i think that is an idea that is not in keeping with who we are as a nation. i think it is an idea that would rip our country apart. i have been for border security for years. i voted for border security in the united states senate. and my comprehensive immigration reform plan, of course includes border security. but i want to put our resources where i think they're most needed. getting rid of any violent person, anybody who should be deported, we should deport them. when it comes to the wall that donald talks about building. he went to mexico. had a meeting with the mexican president. he didn't even raise it. he choked. and then got into a twitter war because the mexican president said we're not paying for that wall. so i think we are both a nation of immigrants and we are a nation of laws and that we can act accordingly. and that's why i'm introducing comprehensive immigration reform within the first 100 days with a path to citizenship.i voted for border security and--there are some limited places where that was appropriate. there also is necessarily going to be new technology and how best to deploy that. but it is clear when you look at what donald has been proposing. he started his campaign bashing immigrants, calling mexican immigrants rapists and criminals and drug dealers, that he has a very different there view about what we should do to deal with immigrants. now, what i am also arguing is that bringing undocumented immigrants out from the shadows, putting them into the formal economy would be good. because then employers can't exploit them and undercut americans' wages. and donald knows a lot about this. he used undocumented labor to build the trump tower. he underpaid undocumented workers and when they complained, he basically said what a lot of employers do. you complain, i'll get you deported. i want to get everybody out of the shadows. get the economy working and not let employers like donald exploit undocumented workers which hurts them but also hurts american workers.we will not have open borders. that is a rank mischaracterization. we will have secure borders. but we will also have reform. this used to be a bipartisan issue. ronald reagan was the last president to sign --to sign immigration reform and george w. bush supported it as well.if you went on to read the rest of the sentence, i was talking about energy. we trade more energy with our neighbors than we trade with the rest of the world combined. and i do want us to have an electric grid, an energy system that crosses borders. i think that would be a great benefit to us. but you are very clearly quoting from wikileaks. what is really important about wikileaks is that the russian government has engaged in espionage against americans. they have hacked american websites, american accounts of private people, of institutions. then they have given that information to wikileaks for the purpose of putting it on the internet. this has come from the highest levels of the russian government. clearly from putin himself in an effort, as 17 of our intelligence agencies have confirmed, to influence our election. so i actually think the most important question of this evening, chris, is finally, will donald trump admit and condemn that the russians are doing this, and make it clear that he will not have the help of putin in this election. that he rejects russian espionage against americans, which he actually encouraged in the past. those are the questions we need answered. we've never had anything like this happen in any of our elections before.wait.well, that's because he would rather have a puppet as president of the united states.it is pretty clear you won't admit that the russians have engaged in cyber attacks against the united states of america. that you encouraged espionage against our people. that you are willing to spout the putin line, sign up for his wish list, break up nato, do whatever he wants to do. and that you continue to get help from him because he has a very clear favorite in this race. so i think that this is such an unprecedented situation. we've never had a foreign government trying to interfere in our election. we have 17, 17 intelligence agencies, civilian and military who have all concluded that these espionage attacks, these cyber attacks, come from the highest levels of the kremlin. and they are designed to influence our election. i find that deeply disturbing.and i think it is time --i am not quoting myself.i am quoting 17, 17 -- do you doubt?our military and civilian -he would rather believe vladimir putin than the military and civilian intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect us. i find that just absolutely --i find it ironic that he is raising nuclear weapons. this is a person who has been very cavalier, even casual about the use of nuclear weapons.he has advocated more countries getting them. japan, korea, even saudi arabia. he’s said if we have them, why don't we use them which i think is terrifying. but here's the deal. the bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order, it must be followed. there is about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so. and that is why ten people who have had that awesome responsibility have come out and in an unprecedented way said they would not trust donald trump with the nuclear codes or to have his finger on the nuclear button.well, i'm just quoting you when-nuclear competition in asia. you said go ahead. enjoy yourselves, folks.the united states has kept the peace through our alliances. donald wants to tear up our alliances. i think it makes the world safer and frankly, it makes the united states safer. i would work with our allies in asia, in europe, in the middle east and elsewhere. that is the only way --well i think the middle class thrives, america thrives. so my plan is based on growing the economy, giving middle class families many more opportunities. i want us to have the biggest jobs program since world war ii. jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing. i think we can compete with high wage countries and i believe we should. new jobs in clean energy. not only to fight climate change, which is a serious problem but to create new opportunities and new businesses. i want us to do more to help small business, that’s where two-thirds of the new jobs are going to come from. i want to us raise the national minimum wage because people who work full time should not still be in poverty. and i sure do want to make sure women get equal pay for the work we do. i feel strongly that we have to have an education system that starts with preschool and goes through college. that’s why i want more technical education and community colleges, real apprenticeships to prepare young peel for the jobs of the future. i want to make college debt-free and for families making less than $125,000, you will not get a tuition bill from a public college or a university if the plan that i worked on with bernie sanders is enacted. and we're going to work hard to make sure that it is. because we are going to go where the money is. most of the gains in the last years since the great recession have gone to the very top. so we are going to have the wealthy pay their fair share. we're going to have corporations make a contribution greater than they are now to our country. that is a plan that has been analyzed by independent experts which said that it could produce 10 million new jobs. by contrast, donald's plan has been analyzed to conclude it might lose 3.5 million jobs. why? because his whole plan is to cut taxes. to give the biggest tax breaks ever to the wealthy and to corporations. adding $20 trillion to our debt and causing the kind of dislocation that we have seen before. because it truly will be trickle down economics on steroids. so the plan i have i think will actually produce greater opportunities. the plan he has will cost us jobs and possibly lead to another great recession.let me translate that if i can, chris.the fact is, he is going to advocate for the largest tax cuts we've ever seen. three times more than the tax cuts under the bush administration. i have said repeatedly throughout this campaign, i will not raise taxes on anyone making $250,000 or less. i also will not add a penny to the debt. i have costed out what i’m going to do. he will, through his massive tax cuts, add $20 trillion to the debt. he mentioned the debt. we know how to get control of the debt. when my husband was president, we went from a $300 billion deficit to a $200 billion surplus and we were actually on the path to eliminating the national debt. when president obama came into office, he inherited the worst economic disaster since the great depression. he has cut the deficit by two-thirds. so yes, one of the ways you go after the debt, one of the ways you create jobs is by investing in people. so i do have investments. investments in new jobs, investments in education, skill training, and the opportunities for people to get ahead and stay ahead. that's the kind of approach---- that will work. cutting taxes on the wealthy. we've tried that. it has not worked the way that it has been --well, it is a combination, chris. let me say that when you inherit the level of economic catastrophe that president obama inherited, it was a real touch and go situation. i was in the senate before i became secretary of state. i've never seen people as physically distraught as the bush administration team was because of what was happening to the economy. i personally believe that the steps that president obama took saved the economy. he doesn't get the credit he deserves for taking some very hard positions. but it was a terrible recession. so now we've dug ourselves out of it. we're standing, but we're not yet running. so what i am proposing is that we invest from the middle out, and the ground up. not the top down. that is not going to work. that is why what i have put forward doesn't add a penny to the debt. but it is the kind of approach that will enable more people to take those new jobs, higher paying jobs. we're beginning to see some increase in incomes. and we certainly have had a long string of increasing jobs. we have got to do more to get the whole economy moving and that's what i believe i will be able to do.well, first, let me say, number one, when i saw the final agreement for tpp, i said i was against it. it didn't meet my test. i've had the same test. does it create jobs, raise incomes and further our national security. i’m against it now. i’ll be against it after the election. i'll be against it when i'm president. there's only one of us on this stage who has actually shipped jobs to mexico because that's donald. he has shipped jobs to 12 countries including mexico. but he mentioned china. and, you know, one of the biggest problems we have with china is the illegal dumping of steel and aluminum into our markets. i have fought against that as a senator. i have stood up against it as secretary of state. donald has bought chinese steel and aluminum. in fact, the trump hotel right here in las vegas was made with chinese steel. so he goes around with crocodile tears about how terrible it is. but he has given jobs to chinese steelworkers, not american steelworkers. that's the kind of approach that is just not going to work. we're going to pull the country together. we're going to have trade agreements that we enforce. that's why i'm going to have a trade prosecutor for the first time in history. and we're going to enforce those agreements and we're going to look for businesses to help us by buying american products.i voted --well, first of all, what he just said about the state department is not only untrue, it’s been debunked numerous times. but i think it's really an important issue. he raised the 30 years of experience, so let me just talk briefly about that. you know, back in the 1970s, i worked for the children's defense fund and i was taking on discrimination against african-american kids in schools. he was getting sued by the justice department for racial discrimination in his apartment buildings. in the 1980s, i was working to reform the schools in arkansas. he was borrowing $14 million from his father to start his businesses. in the 1990s, i went to beijing and i said women's rights are human rights. he insulted a former miss universe, alicia machado, and called her an eating machine.and on the day when i was in the situation room monitoring the raid that brought osama bin laden to justice, he was hosting the celebrity apprentice. so i’m happy to compare my 30 years of experience, what i’ve done for this country, trying to help in every way i could, especially kids and families, get ahead and stay ahead, with your thirty years and i'll let the american people make that decision.well --at the last debate, we heard donald talking about what he did to women, and after that a number of women have come forward saying that's exactly what he did to them. now, what was his response? well, he held a number of big rallies where he said that he could not possibly have done those things to those women because they were not attractive enough for –-- them to be assaulted.in fact, he went on to say --he went on to say “look at her, i don’t think so.” about another woman, he said “that wouldn't be my first choice.” he attacked the woman reporter writing the story, called her disgusting, as he has called a number of women during this campaign. donald thinks belittling women makes him bigger. he goes after their dignity, their self-worth, and i don't think there is a woman anywhere that doesn't know what that feels like. so we now know what donald thinks and what he says and how he acts toward women. that's who donald is. i think it's really up to all of us to demonstrate who we are and who our country is and to stand up and be very clear about what we expect from our next president, how we want to bring our country together, where we don't want to have the kind of pitting of people one against the other, where instead we celebrate our diversity, we lift people up, and we make our country even greater. america is great because america is good. and it really is up to all of us to make that true now and in the future and particularly for our children and our grandchildren.well, every time donald is pushed on something, which is obviously uncomfortable like what these women are saying, he immediately goes to denying responsibility and it's not just about women. he never apologizes or says he's sorry for anything, so we know what he has said and what he's done to women. but he also went after a disabled reporter, mocked and mimicked him on national television.he went after mr. and mrs. khan, the parents of a young man who died serving our country, a gold star family because of their religion. he went after john mccain, a prisoner of war, said he prefers people that aren't captured. he went after a federal judge born in indiana but who donald said couldn't be trusted to try the fraud and racketeering case against trump university because his parents were mexican. so it's not one thing. this is a pattern, a pattern of divisiveness, of a very dark and in many ways dangerous vision of our country where he incites violence, where he applauds people who are pushing and pulling and punching at his rallies. that is not who america is, and i hope that as we move in the last weeks of this campaign more and more people will understand what's at stake in this election. it really does come down to what kind of country we are going to have.well, everything i did as secretary of state was in furtherance of our country's interests and our values. the state department has said that. i think that's been proven, but i am happy -- in fact, i'm thrilled to talk about the clinton foundation because it is a world renowned charity and i'm so proud of the work that it does. i could talk for the rest of the debate. i know i don't have the time to do that, but just briefly the clinton foundation made it possible for 11 million people around the world with hiv aids to afford treatment and that's about half of all the people in the world that are getting treatment in partnership with the american health association.well, it is an open discussion.there is a lot of evidence about the very good work --well, very quickly, we at the clinton foundation spend 90%, 90%, of all the money that is donated on behalf of programs for people around the world and in our own country. i’m very proud of that. we have the highest rating from the watchdogs that follow foundations. and i would be happy to compare what we do with the trump foundation which took money from other people and bought a six-foot portrait of donald. i mean, who does that? i mean, it just was astonishing. but when it comes to haiti, haiti is the poorest country in our hemisphere. the earthquake and the hurricanes, it has devastated haiti. bill and i have been involved in trying to help haiti for many years. the clinton foundation raised $30 million to help haiti after the catastrophic earthquake and all of the terrible problems the people there had. we've done things to help small businesses, agriculture, and so much else. and we're going to keep working to help haiti because it is an important part of the american experience.of course, there's no way we can know whether any of that is true because he hasn't released his tax returns. he's the first candidate ever to run for president in the last 40-plus years who has not released his tax returns. so everything he says about charity or anything else, we can't prove it. you can look at our tax returns. we’ve got them all out there. what is really troubling is that we learned in the last debate he has not paid a penny in federal income tax. and we were talking about immigrants a few minutes ago, chris. half of all undocumented immigrants actually pay federal income tax. so we have undocumented immigrants in america who are paying more federal income tax than a billionaire. i find that just astonishing.made with chinese steel.well chris, let me respond to that because that’s horrifying. you know, every time donald thinks things aren't going in his direction, he claims whatever it is, is rigged against him. the fbi conducted a yearlong investigation into my e-mails. they concluded there was no case. he said the fbi was rigged. he lost the iowa caucus, he lost the wisconsin primary, he said the republican primary was rigged against him. then, trump university gets sued for fraud and racketeering. he claims the court system and the federal judge is rigged against him. there was even a time when he didn't get an emmy for his tv program three years in a row and he started tweeting that the emmys were rigged against him.this is a mind-set. this is how donald thinks, and it's funny, but it's also really troubling. that is not the way our democracy works. we've been around for 240 years. we've had free and fair elections. we've accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them, and that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a debate stage during a general election. you know, president obama said the other day when you're whining before the game is even finished-- (applause)-- it just shows you're not up to doing the job. and let's be clear about what he's saying and what that means. he's denigrating, he is talking down our democracy. and i, for one, am appalled that somebody who is the nominee of one of our two major parties would take that kind of position.well, i am encouraged there is an effort led by the iraqi army, supported by kurdish forces and also given the help and advice from the number of special forces and other americans on the ground, but i will not support putting american soldiers into iraq as an occupying force. i don't think that is in our interest, and i don't think that would be smart to do. in fact, chris, i think that would be a big red flag waving for isis to reconstitute itself. the goal here is to take back mosul. it's going to be a hard fight. i've got no illusions about that. and then continue to press into syria to begin to take back and move on raqqa, which is the isis headquarters. i am hopeful that the hard work that american military advisers have done will pay off and that we will see a really successful military operation. but we know we've got lots of work to do. syria will remain a hotbed of terrorism as long as the civil war aided and abetted by the iranians and the russians continue, so i have said, look, we need to keep our eye on isis. that's why i want to have an intelligence surge that protects us here at home, why we have to go after them from the air, on the ground, online, why we have to make sure here at home we don't let terrorists buy weapons. if you're too dangerous to fly, you're too dangerous to buy a gun. and i'm going to continue to push for a no-fly zone and safe havens within syria, not only to help protect the syrians and prevent the constant outflow of refugees, but to frankly gain some leverage on both the syrian government and the russians so that perhaps we can have the kind of serious negotiation necessary to bring the conflict to an end and go forward on a political track.well, you know, once again donald is implying that he didn't support the invasion of iraq. i said it was a mistake. i said that years ago. he has consistently denied what is ---- is a very clear fact that before the invasion-- he supported it. i just want everybody to go google it. “google donald trump iraq” and you'll see the dozens of sources which verify that he was for the invasion of iraq.and you can hear the audio of him saying that. why does that matter? well, it matters because he has not told the truth about that position. i guess he believes it makes him look better to contrast with me because i did vote for it. but what's really important here is to understand all the interplay. mosul is a sunni city. mosul is on the border of syria, and yes, we do need to go after baghdadi, just like we went after bin laden while you were doing "celebrity apprentice" and we brought him to justice. we need to go after the leadership, but we need to get rid of them, get rid of their fighters. there are several thousand fighters in mosul. they’ve been digging underground. they’ve been prepared to defend. it's going to be tough fighting, but i think we can take back mosul and then we can move on into syria and take back raqqa. this is what we have to do. i'm just am amazed that he seems to think the iraqi government and our allies and everybody else launched the attack on mosul to help me in this election, but that’s how donald thinks, you know, he always is looking for some conspiracy----his conspiracy theories-for quite sometime --he’s unfit. he proves it every time.well you should ask bernie sanders who he is supporting for president.and he said you are the most dangerous person to run for president in the modern history of america. i think he's right.well chris, first of all, i think a no-fly zone could save lives and hasten the end of the conflict. i am well aware of the really legitimate concerns you have expressed from both the president and the general. this would not be done just on the first day.this would take a lot of negotiation and it would also take making it clear to the russians and the syrians that our purpose is to provide safe zones on the ground. we've had millions of people leave syria, and those millions of people inside syria who’ve been dislocated. so i think we could strike a deal and make it very clear to the russians and syrians that this was something that we believe the best interests of the people on the ground in syria. it would help us in the fight against isis. but i want to respond to what donald said about refugees, made these claims repeatedly. i am not going to let anyone into this country who is not vetted, who we do not have confidence in, but i am not going to slam the door on women and children. that picture of that little 4-year-old boy in aleppo with the blood coming down his face while he sat in an ambulance is haunting, and so we are going to do very careful, thorough vetting. that does not solve our internal challenges with isis and our need to stop radicalization to work with american muslim communities who are on the front lines to identify and prevent attacks. in fact, the killer of the dozens of people at the nightclub in orlando, the pulse night club, was born in queens, the same place donald was born. so let's be clear about what the threat is and how we are best going to be able to meet it. yes, some of that threat emanates from over in syria and iraq, and we've got to keep fighting. and i will defeat isis. and some of it is we have to up our game and be much smarter here at home.well, first when i hear donald talk like that and know that his slogan is "make america great again." i wonder when he thought america was great. and before he rushes and says, you know, before you and president obama were there, i think it's important to recognize that he has been criticizing our government for decades. you know, back in 1987, he took out an $100,000 ad in the new york times during the time when president reagan was president and basically said exactly what he just said right now. that we were the laughing stock of the world. he was criticizing president reagan. this is the way donald thinks about himself, puts himself into, you know, the middle and says, you know, ‘i alone can fix it,’ as he said on the convention stage. but if you look at the debt, which is the issue you asked about, chris, i pay for everything i'm proposing. i do not add a penny to the national debt. i take that very seriously because i do think it's one of the issues we've got to come to grips with. so when i talk about how we're going to pay for education, how we're going to invest in infrastructure, how we're going to get the cost of prescription drugs down, and a lot of the other issues that people talk to me about all the time, i've made it very clear, we are going where the money is. we are going to ask the wealthy and corporations to pay their fair share. and there is no evidence whatsoever that that will slow down or diminish our growth. in fact, i think just the opposite. we'll have what economists call middle outgrowth. we've got to get back to rebuilding the middle class. the families of america. that's where growth will come from. that's why i want to invest in you. i want to invest in your family. and i think that's the smartest way to grow the economy, to make the economy fairer. and we just have a big disagreement about this. it may be because of our experiences. you know he started off with his dad as a millionaire. i started off with my dad as a small businessman.i think it's a difference that affects how we see the world and what we want to do with the economy.well, chris, i am record as saying we need to put more money into social security trust fund. that's part of my commitment to raise taxes on the wealthy. my social security payroll contribution will go up as will donald's assuming he can't figure out how to get out of it, but what we want to do is --replenish the trust fund by making sure that we have sufficient resources, and that will come from either raising the cap and/or finding other ways to get more money into it. i will not cut benefits. i want to enhance benefits for low-income workers and for women who have been disadvantaged by the current social security system. but what donald is proposing with these massive tax cuts will result in a $20 trillion additional national debt. that will have dire consequences for social security and medicare. and i'll say something about the affordable care act, which he wants to repeal. the affordable care act extended the solvency of the medicare trust fund. if he repeals it, our medicare problem gets worse.we’ve got to go after the long-term health care drivers. we've got to get costs down, increase value, emphasize wellness. i have a plan for doing that, and i think that we will be able to get entitlement spending under control but with more resources and smart decisions.well i would like to say to everyone watching tonight that i'm reaching out to all americans, democrats, republicans and independents, because we need everybody to help make our country what it should be, to grow the economy, to make it fairer, to make it work for everyone. we need your talents, your skills, your commitment, your energy, your ambition. you know, i've been privileged to see the presidency up close, and i know the awesome responsibility of protecting our country and the incredible opportunity of working to try to make life better for all of you. i have made the cause of children and families really my life's work. that's what my mission will be in the presidency. i will stand up for families against powerful interests, against corporations. i will do everything that i can to make sure that you have good jobs with rising incomes, that your kids have good educations from preschool through college. i hope you will give me a chance to serve as your president.