I get mad at my parents sometimes when they say it, because I have two younger siblings. And I think that it's just better if, for little kids, they don't learn it when they're younger. I think that around when you get in, maybe, third grade or fourth grade, that's a good age to actually know what the words mean. Because you're smarter. I think I used the first curse word when I was eight, because someone got me real mad and I was in an argument with my friend. And then I was like, you F-in' B, why don't you get out of my F-in' face? Well, sort of, I felt relieved, because she actually listened to me. She actually got out of my face. Yeah, I think he was just really happy and wanted to express his feelings.  She runs a day care. And then she had said go upstairs before I bust your S-H. Then-- Yeah, because some people are really offended. There's a lot of people out there who take that really, really, really strongly.  Concert? Some people in this room would like to know if you have a girlfriend, and how old you are.  Do you guys live together?  Did you guys read and go to libraries when you were teens?  Why isn't the drummer wearing any shoe laces? It's his phone. 823-- So it's kind of hard for a lot of people to fit in, because they want that same stuff. My friend Amanda has a Sidekick. My cousin has a Sidekick. Arlene has a Sidekick. Yeah, Christine has a Sidekick. Who else got a Sidekick? This girl on the train got a Sidekick. I saw her Sidekick. Yeah. Almost all my family got a Sidekick. I want a Sidekick. I don't have a Sidekick. I lost my phone, actually. I want a Sidekick, but  haven't got it yet. See, yeah, she has one. She has one. I think it's just natural. Everybody is going to want something in life. You're not going to go through life not wanting anything. You're not going to just go through life, OK, I have this and I have that. I don't need anything else, or I don't want this. I think it's just natural for people to want things. Basically, yeah. Talk about him. He broke her heart, but I don't think she should be going out with him, because she's messed up. I'm mad at her. Yeah, it's true. It's true. You don't know what love is, Nadie. That's until you get to 16. Look, that's David over there. That's David over there. Look. He's with another girl. That's it, right there. See, that's what make us mad, right there. [INTERPOSING VOICES] That's messed up. Yo, that's messed up. 
I know that it's beautiful. It's a beautiful place, and it has lots of mountains. And I know that it's so beautiful, anybody will want to go there. I heard it from a snow movie, like Snow Dogs. You know Snow Dogs? It took place in-- what's the name of the place again? In Colorado. About the hurricane and our sister and brother, we can't find them. No. When Katrina hit, we never heard from since we left. If [? Kiana ?] and Jamal is listening to this, we love you and we miss you. Can we change the subject a bit? Do you like sports, any of you? Do you--  I have a relative that's my aunt. She doesn't really know how to talk to kids. She's sort of--  So, how was school? 
Colorado. Colorado. It's like [INTERPOSING VOICES] adventure. Let me say it. It's like an adventure. We been almost everywhere. We had so much fun. We went to Baton Rouge, went to the shelter, and then Alexandria, then back to Baton Rouge, then to Houston. We had to live in a hotel, the Scottish. Yeah, the Scottish Hotel and Suites. That's what it said. We feel that this person really represents that. So we are supporting him, of course.  My grandma. She doesn't know what to say to me. She's trying to talk to me, but usually she doesn't know what to say. 
We don't agree with him.  Oh, you're so cute. How was school is the typical adult question. So you have to answer it like 6,000 times a year. So if they say, how is school, you know they have nothing else to say, or they don't know what to say.  Adults should know by now, kids don't really like talking about school. It's always like, what did you do? And the kid says, nothing. Or they'll say something like, we had math today. 