 Designated driver.  Hi.  Hello? [HANGS UP]  Hello? [HANGS UP]  I like Boston. Yeah, I believe that one of them is it.  Huh?  No. I don't--  No, I can't sing. No. Yeah. I like to ride a motorcycle.  Yeah, sort of. Yeah, do you?  Yeah, might as well.  Where are you from?  New Hampshire?  Oh. You like doing that?  I don't know.  Yeah. I ain't never thought too much about it. How are you?  We miss you, Vinnie. We miss the Vinnie Arnold we knew. We missed you, Vinnie. We missed you.  I don't know. I'm not into-- I'm back into bowling and running again.  This is a particularly gruesome crime and the ages involved of the people that perpetrated it is absolutely incredible. There's a lot of people here. You're going to step as much to the front of the line as you can. Follow me. There's 30 people in the room, and you are in hell. And you're burning. So let's have some [UNINTELLIGIBLE]. Oh, wow. That was phenomenal. How y'all doing? Can I get you to line up over here, please? Yeah, straight line as possible. OK, as you saw in each scene, someone died. They went to either heaven or hell. If you were to die tonight, do you know where you will go? Or do you think that you know? If this is you, I want to ask you to step through the door. There are people in the next room waiting to pray with you now. You've got six seconds. Five seconds. Do you believe in God? This year's suicide award goes to Liz Simmons! Come on out. Let's give a big hand to Mr. Jonathan Parker, the winner of the school violence director's award.  All right, you're going to flip your collar up. All right, that's going to look real nice, don't you think? Going to look nice?  Looking sharp. I hear them every week, they talk about that, that Klara. And they always say, yeah, we're going to leave her, we're going to leave her. That's never happened. Yeah, can we order coffee and a lot of cakes? Everything that I identify as being me, my ambition, my interest in things, my sense of humor, the inflection in my voice, the quality of my speech even changed in the time that I was without a lot of the hormone. So yes, the introduction of testosterone returned everything. There were things that I find offensive about my own personality that were disconnected then. And it was nice to be without them. Envy, the desire to judge itself, I approached people with a humility that I had never displayed before. When you have no testosterone, you have no desire. And when you have no desire, you don't have any content in your mind. You don't think about anything. It wasn't that I was behaving. It was that I was not behaving at all. I was, when I was awake, literally sitting in bed and staring at the wall, with neither interest nor disinterest, for three, four hours at a time. If you'd had a camera in the room, you would have thought I was comatose. It's very quiet at 5:30, 6:00, 6:30 in the morning. And yeah, and I would see a brick in a wall, and I would think, a brick in a wall. I would see a pigeon and think, pigeon. It's the most literal possible understanding of the world. Like a grocery list. Yes. Which is a very strange-sounding thing, which is, "That is beautiful." Everything I saw, I thought, "That is beautiful," which is odd-sounding, I know, because that sounds like the judgment of a person with passion. But it was the exact opposite. It was thought, and sometimes even said, with complete dispassion, with objectivity. When I think about that question, the issue of God comes into the equation for me. In a way, being without testosterone brought me closer to God, but not in the afternoon talk show sense of being, I don't know, more humane, but actually thinking like God. And of course, I don't mean thinking as God, but I meant thinking like God in an aping, superficial kind of way. He sees things as they really are. He sees you as you really are. There you go. All that wanting. The nature of your fear is that you don't want to join groups. But you have to join a group to get help for the problem. So it turns into a little bit of a vicious circle. Is this a help wanted ad? Stolen black toy poodle named, is it-- Isis. May have a contagious disease, lepto. Can cause liver or kidney failure in humans. Symptoms: dry moth, shaky hands, light-headed, dizziness, [UNINTELLIGIBLE]. So that would be $25.50. Is that right? OK, well, you know what, I'm going to do the same thing. I'll go ahead and run the ad at no extra charge. Yeah, yeah. I feel for you. Hi. How's it going? Good. Are you Helen? OK. And what are the kind of hours that you're looking for? Breakast and lunch shift. Are you looking for something in fine dining, or are you looking for something in catering? Do have any experience in this field? Yeah, so at this time, I'm just taking the applications. And I am definitely going to give you a call by Friday. OK? You're very welcome. My pleasure. My pleasure. Fill out the application, and they'll call you back. OK? I'm in anger management, actually. Well, that was the same situation. I was in a studio like this, and I couldn't hear myself very well. So I took the violin by the neck, right here, and I basically just took it like, I don't know, an ax, and just went bam, and pieces went flying everywhere. Twice, actually. So we're working on that. Yeah. 1, 2, 3, 4. Hello? Oh, yes. I do have German shepherd puppies, but what I have left is one female. And that is all I have left. Yeah, but not around kids, really. No, not around kids. Well, they should be good, because when I was small, I had one. He was always [INAUDIBLE]. But you know what happened the other day? Look, I'm normal, right? And then in August, three weeks ago, I got a makeover. And I changed my hair color. I put on perfume. I never put on perfume. And I changed everything, my clothes. She bit me. Yeah, I felt a little bit depressed and everything. So I changed everything. I changed my clothes. I changed everything. And I started going to a gym and everything. And I lost 10 pounds in, I don't know, in a month. And I don't know, I must have looked totally different for her. Ah, cool. Cool. Yeah, well, they would be great around them. Oh, she was super-nice. She was nice. She slept in my room. And she slept on my bed also. Yeah, because I was very lonely. They've always been together. But my dad, he's like this-- he's not mean. He's not mean. But he has this way of being. He never talks to us. He never hugs us or tells us things. So I was [UNINTELLIGIBLE] with a dog. Yeah. I think I need a little friend. Yeah. Hello? Sure, what would you like to know? Oh, they're lovable. Yeah. They're very friendly. They're very lovable. They demand love. And they demand passion from their owner. By following you around, wanting to hug on you, and wanting to jump up on you. Oh, yes. I've got a dog that's a poodle that's particularly mine. And I have a bad heart. And every time that I go in the hospital, she's lost. She'll sit and scratch at every door in the house. She'll go to the window and scratch. She'll sit and look for me every place in the house. If I'm in bed, she'll stay in bed with me until I get up to make sure that I'm getting up. If I lay back down in bed, she'll get back in bed. Yeah. We love our dogs. Yeah, I need a heart. Oh, yeah. Nope. You live with your life as you can. Maybe I'll come back as a dog. I'm in anger management, actually. Triple-A tickets, all events, seven days, concerts, sports, theater, Lincoln Park. And then it's got the address and the phone number. For a lot of years, I worked here. And if someone had called this ad, called in the phone number here, I probably would have been the one to answer the phone. On and off from '96 to about 2001. Over the course of those few years, I got to know the ticket world inside and out. I met people with names like 35th Street Eddie, South Side Frank, Fast Willie, Richie the Head. There was a guy named Elbow, who had sort of a big elbow. First, I looked up an old ticket friend named Liz. And we started talking about some of our old clients. We call it the stew pot. When you left someone just on hold, you say let them stew for a little while. And usually, if they're kind of hemming and hawing, going back and forth, you let them stew for a few, like five minutes. Maybe come on once and be like, "Hang in there, man. Hang in there. I'll be right back with you." Let them stew another five minutes. Then, after 10, they're ready to talk. They're ready to deal. That's so funny, because we always had the same thing. We had different lines that meant different things. You had a couple lines you had to answer different things. Like one line, you had to answer, hello. Like any time we try to get act tickets through legitimate means, like group sales or anything like that. You would put the home phone number. So it said on all the phones, hello. There was a little taped-up piece of paper that said "hello" on it to remind you to answer it "hello?" No, they would just call you. And they would be like, what's the name of your organization? And sometimes you would say, "Oh, well, it's Grandpa Louie's 70th birthday. So we're bringing 40 people to that game." Or, "The Little League hockey team that I coach, we're having a special slumber party. And we need 120 tickets. We got tykes coming from all over, up and down the state. They're all-stars. You should see some of these kids. They're really fine hockey players." Yeah, he's walking the walk. The area by the stadium or by the concert hall is called the walk. And then you're walking the walk. You're saying, "Who needs two?" Right. He's trying to buy some tickets, so then he can turn them around, and, we say "flip 'em," so he can flip them for some dough, flip them for a profit. We're at row 60. How about 20? Yeah. $49 ticket. I'll do 18, but that's it. Got it. Thanks. You'd sell it for 100? Yeah, midfield. You get what you can, you know? You might as well start high. You never know. Maybe the guy's going to pull out $100 and say, here. It can't hurt to start at $100 and come down. There's a whole psychology to what to do to sell someone tickets. Like when I was on the street, outside of the United Center, say, at a Bulls game, I'd present myself differently to different people, depending on what I thought they wanted out of this ticket-buying transaction. Some guys would be kind of nervous. And I'd see him walking up, and all the hustlers going up to him, trying to sell him tickets. And they'd look all wary. And they'd have a couple kids with them. Really, out of every transaction, both people win. If they paid you it, then they could afford it. So many people would buy tickets from me at just what I imagine to be an exorbitant-- I myself was like, this price is ridiculous. And yet, they would be so happy. They would be glowing. And they were so appreciative and thankful to me, for getting them into the game. It was pretty phat. It was sick. It was humongous. I had a suitcase of money. Yeah. It was actually so much money that I didn't want to deposit it at one time in a bank. I didn't want to freak out the bank manager or anything like that. So I would put a little bit in one bank, a little bit in another bank. And then there was a third bank where I had a safety deposit box. And I would just stuff the cash into the safety deposit box. It's a cold, dark, rainy, miserable, February day every day. And it's [INAUDIBLE] now. Where instead of the gleaming bright sun of the Bulls era. It used to be this page had about 30, 40 ads every day in here. Now there's, what, one, two, three, four, five, six. So a lot of people are out of the game that once were in it. It wasn't just me that retired. And now for what you have all been waiting for. We're here to meet the heroes from New York City. These guys are from Engine House 33, Ladder Company 9, which I think is about a mile from the World Trade Center. These were some first guys on the scene, and they lost 10 men out of their 40-man crew. So these are the real heroes of New York City. Sal, I'd like for Sal "Elvis" Princiatta to come up. Everybody that comes off the tour, I'm going to give y'all one of our short-sleeve t-shirts over here. Black, white, burgundy, the blue, also in black, and all different style t-shirts. Perfect. Just pick your size, my friend. These are real heroes. These guys are from New York, World Trade Center. And these great guys are here for three days. Let's give them a standing Memphis ovation. I'd like to just shake your hand, bud. Y'all did a hell of a job. And I would We're just proud of you, is all I can say. That's all I can say. That's all I can tell you is, we're proud of you guys. Y'all did a hell of a job, and we're proud of you, that's all I can say. We're really proud of you. Y'all did a hell of a job, and that's all I can say, bud. All right, whose-- You all right? Want me to go get the bottle? He's now a paramedic? Guys, let's go-- you guys have signed the paper, right? It's a long way, isn't it? Good morning. I want to welcome you. It's my job to talk a little bit about the general economy, the history of Schenectady. Schenectady was founded about 300 years ago as a Dutch trading settlement. --because quite frankly, you're a great opportunity for us. And please know that we want you and need you. And so we hope you find us as much of an opportunity as we find you. So it truly is a very, very exciting time to be a small person in downtown Schenectady. Very nice place to live. I did make it a rule to see how much money they had in their wallet. And I was going to take all of it.  Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and a warm welcome on board our Swiss flight bound for Karachi.  [SPEAKING URDU] [SPEAKING PASHTO] Coffee is on its way. Here is a special selection of the Viking blend. And I have to get back to work. If Hartman's own students and colleagues can't organize themselves enough to convince his own school to teach his work, how likely is it that his ideas will organize the good of the world? [SPEAKING HEBREW] Boston Market went running real quick. Long John Silver's disappeared. What do you think those people don't know what business is? Let them have it. [SPEAKING ARABIC] You're up. Have you ever seen so many fish? There's a big flounder coming in. See him out there? Let him come in a little bit. That is wall-to-wall flounders right there. I don't know how many there are. And they're just as stunned as they can be. A crab of lying on top of two flounders, right? This is jubilee at its strongest. Here's flounders on the beach-- glitter you see on the war is fish. Just thousands of fish with the sun hitting them. Come stand out here and look at this. Good [UNINTELLIGIBLE].  The microphone.  Hello?  (SINGING) Let me point out from the start that I don't wish to paint you.  (SINGING) I'm a scholar and physician.  Sartore! Sartore!  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE] [LAUGHTER]  [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]  Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Come on [BLEEP]! [BLEEP]!  --a month at the most and at the least. Estimate it. Do the math. You don't even sit down and do that.  I don't have to. I bring home the money.  Well, yeah, to that [UNINTELLIGIBLE PHRASE] because I've been asking you to do that.  You just know what you know, and you block out everything you hear. You just tell me the same thing. Yeah. That's how I feel.  It's like--  Well, you could wake me up.  Tell me to get up.  Well, if you asked me to. I mean, that's like--  I guess I'm--  No, I mean that's one of my few weaknesses. I do have some weaknesses.  [? But I don't disagree-- ?]  Yeah. He isn't as tactful as you are. But see then, I can be late but he can't.  You know, you may be right.  I'm conscious of it, but as you say that-- --the reality of those times when she'd forget about me for hours-- boy. Well, those were very turbulent times for me.  Yeah. God, I hated her for that. The message was very clear. The message was very clear. Boy, life's complex. What about those shoes, anyhow?  No, they're pretty shoes, too. They're nice. I have a friend, Alessandro. He lives in Abadiania, and I show you when he walk around. He had multiple sclerosis. That's the right name? OK, he could not walk, problem to move, even to talk. Only his mother could understand him. He came here today, every day you can see he go into university, walking, he play volleyball with the people around. [SPEAKING VIETNAMESE] [SPEAKING VIETNAMESE] [SPEAKING VIETNAMESE] [SPEAKING VIETNAMESE]  Problem is, we haven't had a good track record.  I want the Kung Pao chicken.  Yeah, number eight.  We need that car shut off in lane two.  I just need to get a thumbs up, ready in lane one from Paul Carmichael. Thumbs up in lane two, Vernon. Watch the leader board, here we go.  51.6 in lane two.  50.8.  And Vernon Sergeant is our winner in street a. Way to go Vernon. Paul Charmichael, great run.  She's not afraid of nobody. She's not afraid of anyone, anyone at all. She has a wonderful personality. You can change [UNINTELLIGIBLE] [BLEEP] off. Here, get a shot of my big belly. Here you go. That'll be gone about the time I get home. Come on, blow the whistle. Aw, [BLEEP], situps. Aw, [BLEEP]. Clockwise. Clockwise. Think of a clock, clockwise. Mark time, march. Lock and load. You fired three rounds. Three rounds. How many holes do you see? [BLEEP] This is going to be a lot different than just hunting back home. Welcome to Fort Hood. This stuff is pretty simple from here on out. Take that two right there. [INAUDIBLE], stay where you're at. [INAUDIBLE], stay where you're at. Hold your weapons to your right. Incoming! So these five ton dump trucks, the youngest one we have is 1956. The newest one we have is 1964. We were promised up-armor kits. We didn't get them. And so we're going to go ahead and try to fabricate something. Thank you sir. You think we could use some of this stuff? Yeah, let's take that with us. I hear that.  I advise you to come to Pakistan and serve you country, to serve the country where you were born. Because America is already an advanced country, and they don't need any intellectual [UNINTELLIGIBLE]. But Pakistan requires many persons who are intellectual and highly educated. What? What? Who? I'm not going back. I don't want to even see it no more. Uh-uh. I ain't going back to that. Yeah, when I was at my house in New Orleans, yeah, I used to play it on my TV. So I got a little bit of skills behind this thing. FEMA, FEMA. We was working across the river today. As you can see, we cleared up all of St. Charles. We cleared out all Louisiana. We clearing up everywhere. We're just cleaning up, man. And it's giving me something to do, keep me from thinking about my family most, sitting down, just concentrating on doing something constructive. They was trying to run us out of the houses and stuff, talking about evacuating. But why shall I leave? They got people coming in from out of town working. I talked to a guy before I got the job where I'm working at now. This guy was from Houston, Texas, a temporary worker working on it. Why the citizens that live here can't stay down here and work? It doesn't make sense. They got so much money coming up. Yeah, let the locals rebuild it. And he want to run us out. Oh, I don't know. They're talking about like two to three months, something like that. It's going to be really hard, because I shed a few tears because I miss them, but I know they in a better place than where I'm at. But I don't know where they at. I don't know where anyone at. I can't even talk to my mother. She left before the storm. The day before the storm she was in Mississippi. I haven't talked to her since. You have a safe trip. Watch yourself, because the army people just told me they got some bad guys running around. Yeah, he say they in the area. Must be. Don't come creeping up that fast again, OK? That's fine. When somebody does that, you stop. We don't know who you are. I appreciate that. Seen anything that we need to know about around here? All right, we appreciate it. Just be safe, all right?  It's a mess, ain't it? It's a mess. Along with the water that went through it. Ask Boss FEMA! You go down around here are the Zuni Indians are. They're the ones that are handing out the ice. You can ask them where the Iceman is. And so you'll see him. He's got kind of a hat on. Looks like a safari hat. And he looks like Crocodile Dundee to me.