 thank you, lester. our jobs are fleeing the country. they're going to mexico. they're going to many other countries. you look at what china is doing to our country in terms of making our product. they're devaluing their currency, and there's nobody in our government to fight them. and we have a very good fight. and we have a winning fight. because they're using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild china, and many other countries are doing the same thing. we cannot let it happen. under my plan, i'll be reducing taxes tremendously, from 35 percent to 15 percent for companies, small and big businesses. that's going to be a job creator like we haven't seen since ronald reagan. it's going to be a beautiful thing to watch. well, for one thing -- and before we start on that -- my father gave me a very small loan in 1975, and i built it into a company that's worth many, many billions of dollars, with some of the greatest assets in the world, and i say that only because that's the kind of thinking that our country needs. secretary clinton and others, politicians, should have been doing this for years, not right now, because of the fact that we've created a movement. they should have been doing this for years. what's happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is -- look, we owe $20 trillion. we cannot do it any longer, lester. holt: back to the question, though. how do you bring back -- specifically bring back jobs, american manufacturers? how do you make them bring the jobs back? well, the first thing you do is don't let the jobs leave. the companies are leaving. i could name, i mean, there are thousands of them. they're leaving, and they're leaving in bigger numbers than ever. that's called business, by the way. i did not. i did not. i do not say that. i do not say that. she talks about solar panels. we invested in a solar company, our country. that was a disaster. they lost plenty of money on that one. i will bring -- excuse me. i will bring back jobs. you can't bring back jobs. yeah, for 30 years. well, he approved nafta... he approved nafta, which is the single worst trade deal ever approved in this country. but you haven't done it in 30 years or 26 years or any number you want to... you haven't done it. you haven't done it. excuse me. your husband signed nafta, which was one of the worst things that ever happened to the manufacturing industry. you go to new england, you go to ohio, pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, secretary clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. nafta is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country. you called it the gold standard. you called it the gold standard of trade deals. you said it's the finest deal you've ever seen. and then you heard what i said about it, and all of a sudden you were against it. not. so is it president obama's fault? is it president obama's fault? secretary, is it president obama's fault? because he's pushing it. but you have no plan. secretary, you have no plan. that's about all you've... you are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. you are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. you are going to drive business out. your regulations are a disaster, and you're going to increase regulations all over the place. facts. and take a look at mine, also, and you'll see. well, could i just finish -- i think i... i think i should -- you go to her website, and you take a look at her website. she's going to raise taxes $1.3 trillion. and look at her website. you know what? it's no difference than this. she's telling us how to fight isis. just go to her website. she tells you how to fight isis on her website. i don't think general douglas macarthur would like that too much. no, no, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. see, you're telling the enemy everything you want to do. no wonder you've been fighting -- no wonder you've been fighting isis your entire adult life. well, i'm really calling for major jobs, because the wealthy are going create tremendous jobs. they're going to expand their companies. they're going to do a tremendous job. why not? there's nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money back into their country. yes. then you didn't read it. who gave it that name? the first i've -- who gave it that name? how much? how much for my family? clinton: ... it is... lester, how much? typical politician. all talk, no action. sounds good, doesn't work. never going to happen. our country is suffering because people like secretary clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of what's going on. i don't mind releasing -- i'm under a routine audit. and it'll be released. and -- as soon as the audit's finished, it will be released. excuse me. well, i told you, i will release them as soon as the audit. look, i've been under audit almost for 15 years. i know a lot of wealthy people that have never been audited. i said, do you get audited? i get audited almost every year. it's not negotiable, no. let her release the e-mails. why did she delete 33,000... that makes me smart. that was more than a mistake. that was done purposely. ok? that was not a mistake. that was done purposely. when you have your staff taking the fifth amendment, taking the fifth so they're not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the fifth, i think it's disgraceful. and believe me, this country thinks it's -- really thinks it's disgraceful, also. it would be squandered, too, believe me. maybe he didn't do a good job and i was unsatisfied with his work... which our country should do, too. wrong. wrong. so, yeah, i think -- i do think it's time. look, it's all words, it's all sound bites. i built an unbelievable company. some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world, real estate assets anywhere in the world, beyond the united states, in europe, lots of different places. it's an unbelievable company. well, first of all, secretary clinton doesn't want to use a couple of words, and that's law and order. and we need law and order. if we don't have it, we're not going to have a country. no, you're wrong. it went before a judge, who was a very against-police judge. it was taken away from her. and our mayor, our new mayor, refused to go forward with the case. they would have won an appeal. if you look at it, throughout the country, there are many places where it's allowed. no, the argument is that we have to take the guns away from these people that have them and they are bad people that shouldn't have them. you need better relationships between the communities and the police, because in some cases, it's not good. but we need -- lester, we need law and order. and we need law and order in the inner cities, because the people that are most affected by what's happening are african-american and hispanic people. and it's very unfair to them what our politicians are allowing to happen. ugh. i'd like to respond to that. first of all, i agree, and a lot of people even within my own party want to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no- fly lists. i agree with you. when a person is on a watch list or a no-fly list, and i have the endorsement of the nra, which i'm very proud of. these are very, very good people, and they're protecting the second amendment. no, you're wrong. you're wrong. murders are up. all right. you check it. i'd like to just respond, if i might. i'd just like to respond. i will. look, the african-american community has been let down by our politicians. they talk good around election time, like right now, and after the election, they said, see ya later, i'll see you in four years. and i will tell you, you look at the inner cities -- and i just left detroit, and i just left philadelphia, and i just -- you know, you've seen me, i've been all over the place. you decided to stay home, and that's ok. but i will tell you, i've been all over. and i've met some of the greatest people i'll ever meet within these communities. and they are very, very upset with what their politicians have told them and what their politicians have done. i'll tell you very -- well, just very simple to say. sidney blumenthal works for the campaign and close -- very close friend of secretary clinton. and her campaign manager, patti doyle, went to -- during the campaign, her campaign against president obama, fought very hard. and you can go look it up, and you can check it out. and if you look at cnn this past week, patti solis doyle was on wolf blitzer saying that this happened. blumenthal sent mcclatchy, highly respected reporter at mcclatchy, to kenya to find out about it. they were pressing it very hard. she failed to get the birth certificate. because i want to get on to defeating isis, because i want to get on to creating jobs, because i want to get on to having a strong border, because i want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very important to the country. yeah. well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it. i figured you'd ask the question tonight, of course. but nobody was caring much about it. but i was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. and i think i did a good job. well, it was very -- i say nothing. i say nothing, because i was able to get him to produce it. he should have produced it a long time before. i say nothing. i would love to respond. first of all, i got to watch in preparing for this some of your debates against barack obama. you treated him with terrible disrespect. and i watched the way you talk now about how lovely everything is and how wonderful you are. it doesn't work that way. you were after him, you were trying to -- you even sent out or your campaign sent out pictures of him in a certain garb, very famous pictures. i don't think you can deny that. i notice you bring that up a lot. and, you know, i also notice the very nasty commercials that you do on me in so many different ways, which i don't do on you. maybe i'm trying to save the money. i do want to say that i was just endorsed -- and more are coming next week -- it will be over 200 admirals, many of them here -- admirals and generals endorsed me to lead this country. that just happened, and many more are coming. and i'm very proud of it. you don't know who broke in to dnc. well, first i have to say one thing, very important. secretary clinton is talking about taking out isis. "we will take out isis." well, president obama and secretary clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of iraq, because they got out -- what, they shouldn't have been in, but once they got in, the way they got out was a disaster. and isis was formed. wrong. wrong. wrong. well, i have to respond. the secretary said very strongly about working with -- we've been working with them for many years, and we have the greatest mess anyone's ever seen. you look at the middle east, it's a total mess. under your direction, to a large extent. no, wait a minute. when they formed, when they formed, this is something that never should have happened. it should have never happened. now, you're talking about taking out isis. but you were there, and you were secretary of state when it was a little infant. now it's in over 30 countries. and you're going to stop them? i don't think so. i did not support the war in iraq. that is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her, because she -- frankly, i think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media. just -- would you like to hear... wait a minute. i was against the war in iraq. just so you put it out. the record does not show that. the record shows that i'm right. when i did an interview with howard stern, very lightly, first time anyone's asked me that, i said, very lightly, i don't know, maybe, who knows? essentially. i then did an interview with neil cavuto. we talked about the economy is more important. i then spoke to sean hannity, which everybody refuses to call sean hannity. i had numerous conversations with sean hannity at fox. and sean hannity said -- and he called me the other day -- and i spoke to him about it -- he said you were totally against the war, because he was for the war. and when he -- excuse me. and that was before the war started. sean hannity said very strongly to me and other people -- he's willing to say it, but nobody wants to call him. i was against the war. he said, you used to have fights with me, because sean was in favor of the war. no, no. you didn't hear what i said. well, i have much better judgment than she does. there's no question about that. i also have a much better temperament than she has, you know? wait. the afl-cio the other day, behind the blue screen, i don't know who you were talking to, secretary clinton, but you were totally out of control. i said, there's a person with a temperament that's got a problem. that would not start a war. no, they were taunting us. wrong. it's lies. that line's getting a little bit old, i must say. i would like to... it's not an accurate one at all. it's not an accurate one. so i just want to give a lot of things -- and just to respond. i agree with her on one thing. the single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament, nuclear weapons, not global warming, like you think and your -- your president thinks. well, wait, but it's very important. all i said was, they may have to defend themselves or they have to help us out. we're a country that owes $20 trillion. they have to help us out. as far as the nuclear is concerned, i agree. it is the single greatest threat that this country has. well, i have to say that, you know, for what secretary clinton was saying about nuclear with russia, she's very cavalier in the way she talks about various countries. but russia has been expanding their -- they have a much newer capability than we do. we have not been updating from the new standpoint. and they're going to end up getting nuclear. i met with bibi netanyahu the other day. believe me, he's not a happy camper. lester, one thing i'd like to say. i will go very quickly. but i will tell you that hillary will tell you to go to her website and read all about how to defeat isis, which she could have defeated by never having it, you know, get going in the first place. right now, it's getting tougher and tougher to defeat them, because they're in more and more places, more and more states, more and more nations. and it's a big problem. and as far as japan is concerned, i want to help all of our allies, but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. we cannot be the policemen of the world. we cannot protect countries all over the world... ... where they're not paying us what we need. and she doesn't say that, because she's got no business ability. we need heart. we need a lot of things. but you have to have some basic ability. and sadly, she doesn't have that. all of the things that she's talking about could have been taken care of during the last 10 years, let's say, while she had great power. but they weren't taken care of. and if she ever wins this race, they won't be taken care of. she doesn't have the look. she doesn't have the stamina. i said she doesn't have the stamina. and i don't believe she does have the stamina. to be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina. you have -- wait a minute. wait a minute, lester. you asked me a question. did you ask me a question? the world -- let me tell you. let me tell you. hillary has experience, but it's bad experience. we have made so many bad deals during the last -- so she's got experience, that i agree. i never said that. i didn't say that. where did you find this? where did you find this? where did you find this? oh, really? clinton: ... she's going to vote this november. ok, good. let me just tell you... you know, hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. some of it's said in entertainment. some of it's said -- somebody who's been very vicious to me, rosie o'donnell, i said very tough things to her, and i think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her. ... extremely rough to hillary, to her family, and i said to myself, "i can't do it. i just can't do it. it's inappropriate. it's not nice." but she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads on me, many of which are absolutely untrue. they're untrue. and they're misrepresentations. ... $200 million is spent, and i'm either winning or tied, and i've spent practically nothing. look, here's the story. i want to make america great again. i'm going to be able to do it. i don't believe hillary will. the answer is, if she wins, i will absolutely support her.