(SINGING) I can tell it's from the heart. How lovely to acquaint you.  (SINGING) I'm aware of your position.  Go, Rusty!  You don't even sit down and do it either.  You told me you [UNINTELLIGIBLE PHRASE] manage it.  Because, [UNINTELLIGIBLE], how can I do it until I-- I need to get the first bill to know what I'm working with.  I feel like you do that. I feel like I keep telling you, and you only want to hear what you want to hear. You don't hear the good stuff, like I'm telling you--  I don't believe you. You are really something.  It's not funny.  No, I don't want to wake you up. You don't like to hear my voice. It's just like the tone of your mother's. That makes me feel real good, too. You don't like to talk to me.  What am I supposed to say? "Please, get up, dear. Would you get up?"  Get serious.  I feel kind of like it's dumping on you to discuss--  --your being late.  There isn't much to argue about.  And now I've learned to kind of just expect it and plan around it. Even [UNINTELLIGIBLE] plans around it.  No.  But you see, I think you're just getting back at your mother for all those times she left you swinging on those swings.  Yes, and I think you should grow up and not do that.  I'm not your mother.  See?  These are not fancy shoes. These are old shoes. They're all worn down. Good morning. On behalf of [? Medio ?] Joao Teixeira de Faria, welcome you all to his spiritual center. All belief systems are welcome here. Everybody in this first line, please step back a little bit so that we can form the line. It's about 10 deep right now. All those who have surgery, please raise there hand. I just came-- come on in, I'm sorry about the leaves. I never thought of that. Yeah, I never thought of that. I was. I was. I should have thought of that, and I never did. Thank you very much. I feel much better. I do. I do. Don't have to whisper anymore. He's Walter. He's Walter. He's the ghost that likes to haunt us. I haven't seen Walter, but I've felt him around here. Scary. Yeah, it's like a tingle up your back.  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  [SPEAKING ARABIC]  Yes.  Yes. Dearest, do you know how much in love with you I am? I have fallen in love without taking a step. Did I trip? Did I stumble? Lose my balance? Graze my knee? Graze my heart? And you watch this, because I'm only going to show you once. Guys. You guys. The bull attacked him. The bull attacked him. What's the address here? And you watch this, because I'm only going to show you once. Them bastards looked at us like we was misfits, and y'all negroes ain't getting in here. You're coming from nowhere. You have nothing. They know you don't have nothing. And then for you to turn around and try to makeshift throw little stepping stones in front of you like that? That's not right. That's not right. Why I'm not staying? Because look how far we are from here. Just look around you. You see yourself. Ain't no good environment. Mexicans are the only people around here. Telling us to come back tomorrow. I was here yesterday with my proof. This is my proof. I was here yesterday. It's like chicken pasta. It's got pasta in it, cream of mushroom soup. What else we put, Joseph? This is Dr. Joseph.  He's a cardiologist. Yes. Is that that show by those hipster know-it-alls who talk about how fascinating ordinary people are? [SIGH] God. [SPEAKING KHMER] [SPEAKING KHMER] [SPEAKING KHMER] [SPEAKING KHMER] What story is this? The soup story. Well first, I need to get to know him as a politician. Hi Jojo.  If all of you members of the state committee could please take your seats.  Oh, Martha's writing a check. Then we won't have her take her seat.  Hello?  Yes?  Uh-huh.  Well--  Good afternoon, doctor's office.  And I just want to let you all know you're in for a real treat. I've seen Anthony speak several times. He's a wonderful, wonderful, powerful advocate. Welcome Anthony Pico.  I don't think they do. Because each of them determines their own eligibility for membership.  Yeah. Totally out of control. It's got this life of its own, and I can't tame it anymore. I actually have a name for the voice. I call it Stan. Stan is the guy who tells me to have the extra glass of wine. Stan is the guy who tells me to smoke. Oh yeah, my voice can pull up statistics, like, obesity is a killer. So the voice would also say, well, it's not that many beers. Because, in fact, if you're thin enough, you actually don't have to drink all that much to get high. Go back to bed for five minutes, just five minutes. Five more minutes, close your eyes, you'll feel great. And then I'll get up five minutes later and it'll be like, eh, I mean, you don't need to iron a skirt. Do you really need to iron the skirt? If you need to iron the skirt, do you need to be wearing the skirt? Maybe you could wear a different skirt, and then you could sleep for 10 more minutes. And that seems like a reasonable negotiation. One of the things I do, that the voice came up with, is when I binge and purge, you never can be sure how much you got back up. The voice came up with the idea that, if I put a coffee can on a scale and adjusted the weight to include the weight of the coffee can, and weighed all my food before I ate it, and then threw up in the same coffee can, I could judge by the weight how much came up. And it also says a lot of mean things, too. Your husband's too good for you, you may as well have a glass of wine because without it you won't be as entertaining. When we decided to get engaged and we had been living together for a little while, the voice was like, you tricked him into giving you the ring, OK, that's a start. But you better try your hardest to make sure he doesn't take it away, because he's going to find out the truth about you and how much you suck. So you better distract him with a really thin body. Well, let me just do this one. If I pop it, I'll have smooth skin, my skin will look nice after I do this. I've definitely scarred my skin. I can see the scars, even though I'm wearing makeup and everything. It's the same thing and it always pushes me the same direction, and I'm always the same 40 minutes late. I think one thing that got me in a standoff against the voice this year was I slept with a guy who has a girlfriend, and she's kind of a bigger girl. And he had slept with a bunch of other girls in town that I knew. And they were all heavy girls. And I slept with him, and I was thinking to myself, I must have rocked his world, because I'm thin and he's used to these fat girls. And then I found out he was going around town saying that having sex with me was like having sex with a pile of paper clips, which is not nice. Right now, yeah. I think I'm in some serious trouble, to be honest.  Fire him. Get rid of him. Get him away from children. But I'm not Mormon. Thank you though. 