"The problem is all inside your head" she said to me
"The answer is easy if you take it logically
I'd like to help you in your struggle to be free
There must be fifty ways to leave your lover"A man walks down the street
He says why am I soft in the middle now
Why am I soft in the middle
The rest of my life is so hard
I need a photo-opportunity
I want a shot at redemption
Don't want to end up a cartoon
In a cartoon graveyard
Bonedigger Bonedigger
Dogs in the moonlight
Far away my well-lit door
Mr. Beerbelly Beerbelly
Get these mutts away from me
You know I don't find this stuff amusing anymoreWhen the mama pajama rolled out a bed
She ran to the police station
When the papa found out he began to shoutIf you leap awake
In the mirror of a bad dream
And for a fraction of a second
You can't remember where you are
Just open your window
And follow your memory upstream
To the meadow in the mountain
Where we counted every falling star10 Years (Oprah Winfrey show 10 year anniversary theme)"The problem is all inside your head" she said to me
"The answer is easy if you take it logically
I'd like to help you in your struggle to be free
There must be fifty ways to leave your lover"Time, time
Time, see what's become of me
While I looked around for my possibilities"He was a most peculiar man"
That's what Mrs.Reardon says and she should know
She lived upstairs from him
She said, "He was a most peculiar man"The last train is nearly due
the underground is closing soon
in the dark deserted station
restless in anticipation
a man waits in the shadows.It was the morning of October 6th, 1960
I was wearing my brown suit
Preparing to leave the house of D
Shook some hands then adios Brooklyn amigosOver the mountain
Down in the valley
Lives a former talk show host
Everybody knows his nameOver the mountain
Down in the valley
Lives a former talk show host
Everybody knows his nameMaladies, melodies
Allergies to dust and grain
Maladies, remedies
Still these allergies remainLet us be lovers we'll marry our fortunes together
I've got some real estate here in my bag
So we bought a pack of cigarettes and Mrs. Wagner pies
And we walked off to look for AmericaA passenger traveling quietly conceals himself
With a magazine and a sleepless pillow
Over the crest of the mountains the moon
Begins its climbINSTRUMENTALOn the morning of her wedding day
When no one was awake
She drove across the border
Leaving all the yellow roses on her wedding cake
Her mother's tears, her breakfast orderApril come she will
When streams are ripe and swelled with rain
May, she will stay
Resting in my arms againApril come she will
When streams are ripe and swelled with rain
May, she will stay
Resting in my arms againWords & music by paul simonSomeone told me
It's all happening at the zoo
I do believe it
I do believe it's true
Mmmmm, mmmmm, mmmmm
Mmmmm, mmmmm, mmmmm
Oh ho ho ho
Mmmmm, mmmmm, mmmmmSnowman sittin' in the sun doesn't have time to waste. He had a little bit too much fun, now his head's erased. Back in the house, family of three, two doin' the laundry and one in the nursery.
We brought a brand new baby back from Bangladesh, thought we'd name her Emily. She's beautiful. Beautiful.
Yes sir, head's erased, brain's a bowl of jelly. Hasn't hurt his sense of taste, judging from his belly. But back in the house, family of four now: two doin' the laundry and two on the kitchen floor.
We brought a brand new baby back from mainland China, sailed across the China Sea. She's beautiful. Beautiful.
Go-kart sittin' in the shade: you don't need a ticket to ride, it's summertime, summertime, slip down a water slide. Little kid dancin' in the grass, legs like rubber band. It's summertime, summertime. There's a line at the candy stand. Keep an eye on them children, eye on the children in the pool. You better keep an eye on them children, eye on them children in the pool.
We brought a brand new baby back from Kosovo. That was nearly seven years ago. He cried all night. Could not sleep. His eyes were bright, dark and deep.
Beautiful.Whoa I got time on my hands tonight
You're the girl of my dreams
When I'm near you my future seems brightBlues Run the Game Lyrics
Written by Jackson C.FrankNever been lonely
Never been lied to
Never had to scuffle in fear
Nothing denied to
Born at the instant
The church bells chime
The whole world whispering
You're born at the right timeI was born in Puerto Rico
We came here when I was a child
Before I reached the age of sixteen
I was runnin' with the gang and we were wildWhen you're weary, feelin' small
When tears are in your eyes, well I will dry them allI am Esmeralda Agr n, Senora
I know I've no right to speak
My son is not the savage boy you see
The cape, the sneer, the slicked-back hair
It hides the child I nursed and bathed, SenoraI can't run but
I can walk much faster than this
Can't run butCars are cars all over the world
Cars are cars all over the world
Similarly made, similarly sold
In a motorcade, abandoned when they're old
Cars are cars all over the worldCecilia, you're breaking my heart
You're shaking my confidence daily
Oh, Cecilia, I'm down on my knees
I'm begging you please to come homeCongratulations
Oh, seems like you've done it again
And I ain't had such misery
Since I don't know when
Oh, and I don't know when
Oh, and I don't know whenFat Charlie the Archangel
Sloped into the room
He said I have no opinion about this
And I have no opinion about that
Sad as a lonely little wrinkled balloon
He said well I don't claim to be happy about this, boys
And I don't seem to be happy about that
I don't want no part of this crazy love
I don't want no part of your love
I don't want no part of this crazy love
I don't want no part of your love
I don't want no part of this crazy love
I don't want no part of your love
I don't want no part of this crazy love
I don't want no part of this crazy loveFat Charlie, the Archangel, sloped into the room
He said, "I have no opinion about this
And I have no opinion about that"Fat Charlie the Archangel
Sloped into the room
He said I have no opinion about this
And I have no opinion about that
Sad as a lonely little wrinkled balloon
He said well I don't claim to be happy about this, boys
And I don't seem to be happy about thatIt's a still life water color,
Of a now late afternoon,
As the sun shines through the curtained lace
And shadows wash the room.
And we sit and drink our coffee
Cast in our indifference,
Like shells upon the shore
You can hear the ocean roar
In The Dangling Conversation
And the superficial sighs,
The borders of our lives.Words & music by Paul SimonThe first time I saw her
I couldn't be sure
But the sin of impatience
Said, "She's just what you're looking for"Well I'm accustomed to a smooth ride
Or maybe I'm a dog who's lost its bite
I don't expect to be treated like a fool no more
I don't expect to sleep through the night
Some people say a lie's a lie's a lie
But I say why
Why deny the obvious child?
Why deny the obvious child?(a-wa) o kodwa u zo-nge li-sa namhlange
(a-wa a-wa) si-bona kwenze ka kanjani
(a-wa a-wa) amanto mbazane ayeza
She's a rich girl
She don't try to hide it
Diamonds on the soles of her shoesCouple in the next room bound to win a prize
They been goin' at it all night long
Well I'm tryin' to get some sleep
But these motel walls are cheap
Lincoln Duncan is my name
And here's my song, here's my songId rather be a sparrow than a snail
Yes, I would if I could, I surely would
Id rather be a hammer than a nail
Yes, I would if I only could, I surely wouldLocked in a struggle for the right combination -
Of words in a melody line,
I took a walk along the riverbank of my imagination.
Golden clouds were shuffling the sunshine.Paraphernalia, never hides your broken bones
And I don't know why you'd want to try
It's plain to see you're on your own
I ain't blind, no some folks are crazyIf she stays, she stays here.
The girl does what she wants to do.
She knows what she wants to do.
And I know I'm fakin' it,
I'm not really makin' it.If you leap awake
In the mirror of a bad dream
And for a fraction of a second
You can't remember where you are
Just open your window
And follow your memory upstream
To the meadow in the mountain
Where we counted every falling starIf you leap awake
In the mirror of a bad dream
And for a fraction of a second
You can't remember where you are
Just open your window
And follow your memory upstream
To the meadow in the mountain
Where we counted every falling starSlow down, you movin' too fast
You gotta make the moment last
Just kickin' down the cobblestones
Lookin' for fun and
Feelin' groovy____________What I dream I had, dressed in organdy
Clothed in crinoline, of smoky Burgundy
Softer than the rainThere may come a time
When you'll be tired
As tired as a dream
That wants to dieYeah, well getting ready
Yeah, oh yeah
Getting ready, yeah
Getting readyLord, I'm a working man
And music is my trade
I'm travelin' with this five-piece band
I play the ace of spadesWhen I think back
On all the crap I learned in high school
It's a wonder
I can think at all
And though my lack of education
Hasn't hurt me none
I can read the writing on the wallThe Mississippi Delta was shining
Like a national guitar
I am following the river
Down the highway
Through the cradle of the Civil War
I'm going to Graceland, Graceland
In Memphis, Tennessee
I'm going to GracelandI was having this discussion
In a taxi heading downtown
Rearranging my position
On this friend of mine who had a little bit of a breakdownYesterday it was my birthday
I hung one more year on the line
I should be depressed, my life's a mess
But I'm having a good timeHe was my brother
Five years older than I
He was my brother
Twenty-three years old the day he diedOne and one-half wandering Jews
Free to wander wherever they choose
Are traveling together
In the Sangre de Christo
The Blood of Christ Mountains
Of New Mexico
On the last leg of a journey
They started a long time ago
The arc of a love affair
Rainbows in the high desert air
Mountain passes
Slipping into stone
Hearts and bones
Hearts and bones
Hearts and bonesOne and one-half wandering Jews
Free to wander wherever they choose
Are traveling together
In the Sangre de Christo
The Blood of Christ Mountains
Of New Mexico
On the last leg of a journey
They started a long time ago
The arc of a love affair
Rainbows in the high desert air
Mountain passes
Slipping into stone
Hearts and bones
Hearts and bones
Hearts and bonesThere may come a time
When you'll be tired
As tired as a dream
That wants to dieGuitar (simon) & violin (stephane grappelli)
InstrumentalEmaweni webaba
Silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweniEmaweni webaba
Silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweni
Webaba silale maweniI'm sittin' in the railway station, got a ticket for my destination
On a tour of one-night-stands, my suitcase and guitar at hand
And every stop is neatly planned for a poet and a one-man bandWe heard the fireworks. Rushed out to watch the sky. Happy go lucky. Fourth of July.
How can you live in the Northeast? How can you live in the South? How can you build on the banks of a river when the flood water pours from the mouth? How can you be a Christian? How can you be a Jew? How can you be a Muslim, a Buddhist, a Hindu?
How can you?
Weak as the winter sun, we enter life on earth. Names and religion come just after date of birth. Then everybody gets a tongue to speak, and everyone hears an inner voice. A day at the end of the week to wonder and rejoice.
If the answer is infinite light, why do we sleep in the dark?
How can you live in the Northeast? How can live in the South? How can you build on the banks of a river when the flood water pours from the mouth? How can you tattoo your body? Why do you cover your head? How can you eat from a rice bowl, the holy man only breaks bread?
We watched the fireworks, 'til they were fireflies. Followed a path of stars, over the endless skies.
How can you live in the Northeast? How can you live in the South? How can you build on the banks of a river when the flood water pours from the mouth?
I've been given all I wanted. Only three generations off the boat. I have harvested and I've planted. I am wearing my father's old coat.In the blue light of the Belvedere Motel
Wondering as the television burns
How the heart approaches what it yearnsWhen I was a little boy
And the Devil would call my name
I'd say "now who do
Who do you think you're fooling?"
I'm a consecrated boy
Singer in a Sunday choir
My mama loves, she loves me
She gets down on her knees and hugs me
She loves me like a rock
She rocks me like the rock of ages
And she loves me
She loves me, loves me, loves me, loves meA winter's day, in a deep and dark December
I am alone, gazing from my window to the streets below
On a freshly fallen silent shroud of snow
I am a rock, I am an islandWe were married on a rainy day
The sky was yellow and the grass was gray
We signed the papers and we drove away
I do it for your loveActs of kindness, like breadcrumbs in a fairytale forest, lead us past dangers as light melts the darkness.
But I don't believe, and I'm not consoled. I lean closer to the fire, but I'm cold.
The earth was born in a storm. The waters receded, the mountains were formed.
"The universe loves a drama," you know. And ladies and gentlemen this is the show.
I got a call from my broker.
The broker informed me I'm broke.
I was dealing my last hand of poker.
My cards were useless as smoke.
Oh, guardian angel.
Don't taunt me like this, on a clear summer evening as soft as a kiss.
My children are laughing, not a whisper of care.
My love is brushing her long chestnut hair.
I don't believe a heart can be filled to the brim then vanish like mist as though life were a whim.
Maybe the heart is part of the mist.
And that's all that there is or could ever exist.
Maybe and maybe and maybe some more. Maybe's the exit that I'm looking for.
I got a call from my broker.
The broker said he was mistaken.
Maybe some virus or brokerage joke and he hopes that my faith isn't shaken.
Acts of kindness, like rain in a drought, release the spirit with a whoop and a shout.
I don't believe we were born to be sheep in a flock.
To pantomime prayers with the hands of a clock.She looked me over and I guess she thought I was all right
All right in a sort of a limited way for an off-night
She said, "Don't I know you from the cinematographer's party"
I said, "Who am I to blow against the wind"Half an hour would change your strings and tuned up
Sizing the room up, checkin' the bar
Local girl's unspoken conversation
Misinformation plays guitarI hear the drizzle of the rain
Like a memory it falls.
Soft and warm,
Continuing
Tapping on my roof and walls.Gee but its great to be back home
Home is where I want to be
I've been on the road so long my friend
that if you came along I know you couldn't disagree
its the same old story
Everywhere I go I get slandered
Libeled, I hear words I never heard in the bible
and I'm one step ahead of the shoeshine
Two steps away from the county line
Just trying to keep my customers satisfied
satisfiedInmate
Killer wants to go to college
He wants to get his parole
So the department of corrections
Will release him in the fall
Killer wants to go on t.v.
Wants to talk about his book
Make my life into a movie
I got the style, I got the look.Sal
I know you're trying to protect me
Searching for another truth
With your language and your poetry
From my ignorance and youthWhen I think back
On all the crap I learned in high school
It's a wonder
I can think at all
And though my lack of education
Hasn't hurt me none
I can read the writing on the wall"The problem is all inside your head" she said to me
"The answer is easy if you take it logically
I'd like to help you in your struggle to be free
There must be fifty ways to leave your lover"A man walks down the street
He says why am I soft in the middle now
Why am I soft in the middle
The rest of my life is so hard
I need a photo-opportunity
I want a shot at redemption
Don't want to end up a cartoon
In a cartoon graveyard
Bonedigger Bonedigger
Dogs in the moonlight
Far away my well-lit door
Mr. Beerbelly Beerbelly
Get these mutts away from me
You know I don't find this stuff amusing anymoreWhen the mama pajama rolled out a bed
She ran to the police station
When the papa found out he began to shoutIf you leap awake
In the mirror of a bad dream
And for a fraction of a second
You can't remember where you are
Just open your window
And follow your memory upstream
To the meadow in the mountain
Where we counted every falling starThe first thing I remember
I was lying in my bed
I couldn't of been no more
Than one or two
I remember there's a radio
Comin' from the room next door
And my mother laughed
The way some ladies do
When it's late in the evening
And the music's seeping throughYou got to learn how to fall
Before you learn to fly
And mama, mama, it ain't no lie
Before you learn to fly
Learn how to fallI was twenty-one years when I wrote this song
I'm twenty-two now but I won't be for long
Time hurries onIt's been a long, long day
I got some run-down shoes
Ain't got no place to stay
But any old place will be okay
It's been a long, long dayLook at that
Look at this
Drop a stone in the abyss
Then walk away and know that anything can happen
Just like that
Just like thisCool me, cool my fever high
Hold me when I cry I
I need it so much
Makes you want to get down
And crawl like a beggar for its touch
And all the while it's free as air
Like plants the medicine is everywhereLove and blessings, simple kindness
Fell like rain on thirsty land
Fields and gardens, long abandoned
Came to life in dust and sandGod and His only Son
Paid a courtesy call on Earth, one Sunday morning
Orange blossoms opened their fragrant lips
Songbirds sang from the tips of Cottonwoods
Old folks wept for His love in these hard timesLove is eternal sacred light
Free from the shackles of time
Evil is darkness, sight without sight
The demon that feeds on the mindWhen I was a little boy
And the Devil would call my name
I'd say "now who do
Who do you think you're fooling?"
I'm a consecrated boy
Singer in a Sunday choir
My mama loves, she loves me
She gets down on her knees and hugs me
She loves me like a rock
She rocks me like the rock of ages
And she loves me
She loves me, loves me, loves me, loves meWhen I was a little boy
And the Devil would call my name
I'd say "now who do
Who do you think you're fooling?"
I'm a consecrated boy
Singer in a Sunday choir
My mama loves, she loves me
She gets down on her knees and hugs me
She loves me like a rock
She rocks me like the rock of ages
And she loves me
She loves me, loves me, loves me, loves meWhen the mama pajama rolled out a bed
She ran to the police station
When the papa found out he began to shoutNo I would not give you false hope
On this strange and mournful day
But the mother and child reunion
Is only a motion away, oh, little darling of mineWe'd like to know a little bit
About you for our files
We'd like to help you learn
To help yourselfIn my little town, I grew up believing
God keeps His eye on us all
And He used to lean upon me
As I pledged allegiance to the wall
Lord I recall, my little townThere were two men down
And the score was tied
In the bottom of the eighth
When the pitcher diedWho knows my secret broken
Who feels my flesh when I am gone
Who was a witness to the dream
Who kissed my eyes and saw the scream
Lying there
NobodyThe boy's got brains
He just don't use 'em that's all
The boy's got brains
He just refuse to use 'em an' that's all
He says,"The more I get to thinkin'
The less I tend to laugh"
The boy's got brains
He just abstainsThe first time I heard "Peggy Sue", I was 12 years old
Russians up in rocket ships and the war was cold
Now many wars have come and gone, Genocide still goes on
Buddy Holly still goes on but his catalogue was soldOld friends, old friends sat on their parkbench like bookends
A newspaper blowin' through the grass
Falls on the round toes of the high shoes of the old friends
Old friends, winter companions, the old men
Lost in their overcoats, waiting for the sun
The sounds of the city sifting through trees
Settles like dust on the shoulders of the old friends
Can you imagine us years from today, sharing a parkbench quietly
How terribly strange to be seventy
Old friends, memory brushes the same years, silently sharing the same fears.Once upon a time there was an ocean. But now it's a mountain range. Something unstoppable set into motion. Nothing is different, but everthing's changed.
It's a dead end job, and you get tired of sittin'. And it's a like a nicotine habit you're always thinking about quittin'. I think about quittin' every day of the week. When I look out my window it's brown and it's bleak.
Outta here. How am I gonna get outta here? I'm thinking outta here. When am I gonna get outta here? And when will I cash in my lottery ticket, and bury my past with my burdens and strife? I want to shake every limb in the garden of Eden, and make every lover the love of my life.
I figure that once upon a time I was an ocean. But now I'm a mountain range. Somthing unstoppable set into motion. Nothing is different, but everything's changed.
Found a room in the heart of the city, down by the bridge. Hot plate and TV and beer in the fridge. But I'm easy, I'm open-that's my gift. I can flow with the traffic, I can drift with the drift. Home again? Naw, never going home again. Think about home again? I never think about home.
But then comes a letter from home, the handwriting's fragile and strange. Something unstoppable set into motion. Nothing is different, but everthing's changed.
The light through the stained glass was cobalt and red. And the frayed cuffs and collars were mended by haloes of golden thread. The choir sang, "Once Upon A TIme There Was An Ocean." And all the old hymns and family names came fluttering down as leaves of emotion.
As nothing is different, but everthing's changed.He's a one trick pony
One trick is all that horse can do
He does one trick only
It's the principal source of his revenue
And when he steps into the spotlight
You can feel the heat of his heart
Come rising throughThere's been some hard feelings here
About some words that were said
Been some hard feelings here and what is moreIt's outrageous to line your pockets off the misery of the poor.
Outrageous, the crimes some human beings must endure.
It's a blessing to wash your face in the summer solstice rain.
It's outrageous a man like me stand here and complain.
But I'm tired.
Nine hundred sit-ups a day.
I'm painting my hair the color of mud, mud okay?
I'm tired, tired. Anybody care what I say?
No! I'm painting my hair the color of mud.
Who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
Tell me, who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
Aw, who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
Who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
It's outrageous the food they try to serve in a public school.
Outrageous, the way they talk to you like you're some kind of clinical fool.
It's a blessing to rest my head in the circle of your love.
It's outrageous I can't stop thinking 'bout the things I'm thinking of.
And I'm tired. Nine hundred sit-ups a day.
I'm painting my hair the color of mud, mud okay?
I'm tired, tired.
Anybody care what I say?
No! Painting my hair the color of mud.
Who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
Tell me, who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
Tell me, who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?
God will. Like he waters the flowers on your window sill.
Take me. I'm an ordinary player in the key of C.
And my will was broken by my pride and my vanity.
Who's gonna love you when you're looks are gone?
God will. Like he waters the flowers on your window sill.
Who's gonna love you when your looks are gone?It's carbonide monoxide
The ol' Detroit perfume
It hangs on the highways in the mornin'
And it lays you down by noonI got some so-called friends, they'll smile right to my face
Oh, when my back is turned they'd like to stick it to me
Yes they wouldAh, peace like a river ran through the city
Long past the midnight curfew, we sat starry-eyed
Ooh, oh, we were satisfied, ooh, and I remember
Misinformation followed us like a plague
Nobody knew from time to time if the plans were changed
Oh, oh, oh, if the plans were changedBig and fat
Pig's supposed to look like that
Barnyard thug
Sleeps on straw and calls it a rugSoon our fortunes will be made, my darling
And we will leave this loathsome little town
Silver bells jingling from your black lizard boots, my baby
Silver foil to trim your wedding gownThe way you move, it's got quality
Come on baby, let's go downtown
Little girl, you sure look good to meA pilgrim on a pilgrimage
Walked across the Brooklyn Bridge
His sneakers torn in the hour
When the homeless move their cardboard blankets
And the new day is bornI am heading for a time of quiet
When my restlessness is past
And I can lie down on my blanket
And release my fists at lastRene and Georgette Magritte
With their dog after the war
Returned to their hotel suite
And they unlocked the door
Easily losing their evening clothes
They danced by the light of the moon
To the Penguins, the Moonglows
The Orioles, and The Five Satins
The deep forbidden music
They'd been longing for
Rene and Georgette Magritte
With their dog after the warSlip slidin' away
Slip slidin' away
You know the nearer your destination
The more you're slip slidin' awayThey say that Richard Cory owns one half of this whole town
with political connections to spread his wealth around
born into society a banker's only child
He had everything a man could want power, grace and style
But I work in his factory and I curse the life I'm living
and I curse my poverty and I wish that I could be
Oh I wish that I could be, Oh I wish that I could be Richard CoryWent to my doctor yesterday
She said I seem to be okayI been sleeping on the roof of my building
It's cooler than the street
I been watching the setting sun
As it bounces off the avenue turning into gold dust at my feetAre you going to Scarborough Fair?
Parsley, sage, rosemary & thyme
Remember me to one who lives there
She once was a true love of mineWords & music by paul simonI feel good, it's a fine day
The way the sun hits off the runway
A cloud shifts, the plane lifts
She moves onSilent eyes
Watching Jerusalem
Make her bed of stonesSlip slidin' away
Slip slidin' away
You know the nearer your destination
The more you're slip slidin' awayI'm gonna make a chicken gumbo
Toss some sausage in the pot
I'm gonna flavor it with okra
Cheyenne pepper to make it hotSoft parachutes
Fourth of July
Villages burning
Returning
The bodies all laid in a line
Like soft parachutesSome folks' lives roll easy as a breeze
Drifting through a summer night
Heading for a sunny day
But most folks' lives, oh they stumble
Lord they fall
Through no fault of their own
Most folks never catch their stars
And here I am, Lord
I'm knocking at your place of business
I know I ain't got no business here
But you said if I ever got so low
I was busted
You could be trustedWhoa I got time on my hands tonight
You're the girl of my dreams
When I'm near you my future seems brightIf you want to write a song about the moon
Walk along the craters of the afternoon
When the shadows are deep and the light is alien
And gravity leaps like a knife off the pavementHere is my song for the asking
Ask me and I will play
So sweetly I'll make you smileHello darkness, my old friend
I've come to talk with you again
Because a vision softly creeping
Left its seeds while I was sleeping
And the vision that was planted in my brain
Still remains
Within the sound of silenceWe sailed up a river, wild as a sea
Slept on the banks on the leaves of a banyan tree
And all of these spirit voices rule the nightOoh, little sleepy boy
Do you know what time it is?
Well, the hour of your bedtime's long been past
And though I know you're fightin' it
I can tell when you rub your eyes
You're fadin' fast, oh, fadin' fastI met my old lover
On the street last night
She seemed so glad to see me
I just smiled
And we talked about some old times
And we drank ourselves some beers
Still crazy after all these years
Oh Still crazy after all these yearsHe was a mean individual
He had a heart like a bone
He was a naturally crazy man
And better off left alone
Well he stopped one night
At a traffic light
And when that light turned green
He was a mean individual
Stranded in a LimousineSalvador
The afternoon sunlight
Is folding around us
The dishes are doneI registered to vote today. Felt like a fool. Had to do it anyway. Down at the high school. Thing about the second line. You know, felt like a fool? People say it all the time. Even when it's true. So, who's that conscience sticking on the sole of my shoe? Who's that conscience sticking on the sole of my shoe? Cause it sure don't feel like love.
A tear drop consists of electrolytes and salt. The chemistry of crying is not concerned with blame or fault. So, who's that conscience sticking on the sole of my shoe? Who's that conscience sticking on the sole of my shoe? Cause it sure don't feel like love. How does it feel? Feels like a threat. A voice in your head that you'd rather forget. No joke, no joke. You get sick from that unspoken. Sure don't feel like love. No joke, no joke. Some chicken and a corn muffin well that feels more like love.
Yay!Boo!
Yay!Boo!
Wrong again. Wrong again. Maybe I'm wrong again. Wrong again. Maybe I'm wrong again. Wrong again. I could be wrong again. I remember once in August 1993, I was wrong, and I could be wrong again. I remember one of my best friends turned enemy. So, I was wrong, and I could be wrong again. I remember once in a load-out, down in Birmingham. Yeah, but that didn't feel like love. Sure don't feel like, sure don't feel like, sure don't feel like love. Sure don't feel like, sure don't feel like, sure don't feel like love. It sure. Don't feel.
Like love.C'mon take me to the Mardi Gras
Where the people sing and play
Where the dancing is elite
And there's music in the street
Both night and dayWhat can I do, what can I do?
Much of what you say is true
I know you see through me
But there's no tenderness
Beneath your honestyNo I would not give you false hope
On this strange and mournful day
But the mother and child reunion
Is only a motion away, oh, little darling of mineWell I'll just skip the boring parts chapters one, two , three and get to the place where you can read my face and my biography.
Here I am, I'm eleven months old, dangling from my daddy's knee. There I go, it's my graduation, I'm picking up a bogus degree. That's me. Early me. That's me.
Well I never cared much for money, and money never cared for me. I was more like a land-locked sailor, searching for the emerald sea. Just searching for the emerald sea, boys, searching for the sea.
Oh my God. First love opens like flower. A black bear running through the forest light holds me in her sight and her power. But tricky skies, your eyes are true, the future is beauty and sorrow. Still, I wish that we could run away and live the life we used to. If just for tonight and tomorrow.
I am walking up the face of the mountain. Counting every step I climb. Remembering the names of the constellations. Forgotten is a long, long time. That's me. I'm in the valley of twilight. Now I'm on the continental shelf. That's me-I'm answering a question I am asking of myself.Somewhere in a burst of glory
Sound becomes a song
I'm bound to tell a story
That's where I belongWhen I was born my mother died
She said, "Bye-bye baby, bye-bye"
I said, "Where you goin'?"
I'm just bornSlow down, you move too fast.
You got to make the morning last.
Just kicking down the cobble stones.
Looking for fun and feelin' groovy.After I died and the makeup had dried
I went back to my place
No moon that night but a heavenly light
Shone on my faceI am just a poor boy
Though my story's seldom told,
I have squandered my resistance
For a pocket full of mumbles, such are promises
All lies and jests
Still a man hears what he wants to hear
And disregards the restIt was a slow day
And the sun was beating
On the soldiers by the side of the road
There was a bright light
A shattering of shop windows
The bomb in the baby carriage
Was wired to the radioA family of musicians took shelter for the night
In the little harbor church of St. Cecilia
Two guitars, bata, bass drum and tambourine
Rose of Jericho and the BougainvilleaMoves like a fist through the traffic
Anger and no one can heal it
Shoves a little bump into the momentum
It's just a little lump but you feel it, in theI was reading a magazine
And thinking of a rock and roll song
The year was nineteen fifty four
And I hadn't been playing that long