AARP
It’s right in your own backyard.

While it may be hard to believe, roughly five million Americans don’t even know where their next meal will come from.

In communities just like yours, there are many who need help.

Join people across the country who are coming together with AARP Create the Good, to end hunger.

Start today. It can be as easy as giving food or money to your local area food bank, or getting tips to start your own food drive.

Whatever level of involvement is right for you, we’ve made it simple to find and help people in your area.

So get involved. Go to www.createthegood.org/hunger.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Above the Influence (PSA)
I thought I respected myself. That is, until I saw myself get high. It's just an ugly side of myself that I didn't recognize. Saying and doing things that just weren't me. I do respect myself, that's why I don't do drugs.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopt-A-Horse
If there's a place in your heart for a wild mustang or burro…and you're ready to adopt… come to Ingalls Park in Norco this Saturday and Sunday.

The Bureau of Land Management will offer 80 wild horses and 20 wild burros to qualified adopters through its Adopt-A-Horse or Burro Program.

These beautiful mustangs and burros were gathered from public lands in California, and they're in excellent health. They arrive at the park around noon on Friday and will be available for public viewing.

Mustangs are renowned for their strength, speed and endurance. Burros make excellent pets, companion animals and guard animals.

The minimum bid is only $125 dollars per animal. Fees may be paid by cash, check, or credit card.

Don't miss this opportunity to adopt a wild mustang or burro this weekend at Ingalls Park in Norco.

For more information call eight hundred, nine five one, eight seven two zero. That's eight hundred, nine five one, eight seven two zero.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Air
It’s much better fresh ... cold ... or warm. If it’s not clear, it can make you sick. Animals, trees, insects, and plants use it too. What is it? It’s air. That substance that none of us can live without. THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION is doing its part in America’s quest for a healthy environment. You can too. Don’t pollute the environment. Our survival is at stake.

 
 
 
 
 
Air
Air
It’s much better fresh ... cold ... or warm. If it’s not clear, it can make you sick. Animals, trees, insects, and plants use it too. What is it? It’s air. That substance that none of us can live without. THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION is doing its part in America’s quest for a healthy environment. You can too. Don’t pollute the environment. Our survival is at stake.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcohol
How do kids get alcohol? From legal aged friends and even siblings. Talk with your kids and get a free copy of “let’s keep talking” at millerbrewing.com Live responsibily…Miller Brewing Company. Milwakee, Wisconsin.

 
 
 
 
 
Alcohol PSA
Never provide alcohol to a minor. Think through it, don't do it.
A message from the Connecticut Attorney General's Office and the Office of Traffic Safety.
To learn more, go to safestate.org/trace.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergies
Do you know what these items have in common? They can kill people who are severly allergic to them. Things as simple as peanuts, milk, eggs and shellfish can cause a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. As many as 1 out of 7 people may at risk for anaphylaxis. Other causes include insect stings, antibiotics, and latex. Are you, or someone you love at risk? Be prepared. Completely avoiding an allergen is impossible. There are treatments that reverse the symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. If you or someone in your family has had any of these symptoms after contact with items like these, talk to your doctor.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergies
Do you know what these items have in common? They can kill people who are severly allergic to them. Things as simple as peanuts, milk, eggs and shellfish can cause a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. As many as 1 out of 7 people may at risk for anaphylaxis. Other causes include insect stings, antibiotics, and latex. Are you, or someone you love at risk? Be prepared. Completely avoiding an allergen is impossible. There are treatments that reverse the symptoms of a severe allergic reaction. If you or someone in your family has had any of these symptoms after contact with items like these, talk to your doctor.

 
 
 
 
 
Alzheimer's 2
Remembering is difficult. But even more difficult if you have Alzheimer disease—a disease that affects the brain, erases memory and eventually takes life. The Alzheimer Society is fighting back. It provides support, information, and funds research into finding the cause—and a cure. Until then, remember this.

 
 
 
 
 
Alzheimer’s
Is it just forgetfulness...or Alzheimer’s disease? Memory loss ... Asking repeated questions ... Trouble using words. When signs like these begin to affect everyday life, they may not be a part of normal aging. They may be signs of Alzheimer’s disease, an incurable, progressive illness that robs patients and their families of a lifetime of memories. Only a doctor can evaluate symptoms such as forgetfulness and diagnose Alzheimer’s disease. To learn more, call toll-free today: 1-888-988-9565.

 
 
 
 
 
American Academy of Neurology Guidelines for Alzheimers
The American Academy of Neurology has issued a new guideline to help determine when people with Alzheimer’s disease or dementia should stop driving. The guideline advises caregivers to watch for warning signs including: crashes, traffic tickets, avoiding driving at night or in rain and an impulsive personality. To learn more or to find a neurologist near you, visit the American Academy of Neurology’s website for patients and caregivers at AAN.com. (pronounce the letters separately.) That’s AAN.com.

Direction note: 30s PSA. Pronounce the letters of the website (A.A.N.) separately.

U/L by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
American Bar Association
Join the American Bar Association to stay current on legal developments, earn CLE credit, and enjoy exclusive savings. The ABA offers expertise on a national scope, career and practice advice, networking opportunities with legal professionals from across the U.S., and much more. As a lawyer licensed to practice in the one of the states, territories, or possessions of the United States, you will soon find the ABA has become an essential component of your professional life.

 
 
 
 
 
American Cancer Society
It’s tough to quit smoking. Just ask any of the 50 million Americans who continue to puff away, even though they know the toll it takes on health and longevity. When it comes to breaking this lethal habit, the most effective tool is willpower. The American Cancer Society now offers a free video for those smokers who feel they can’t quit alone. Call the AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY today, at 1-800-575-2424.

 
 
 
 
 
American Cancer Society
If you think just one person can't make a difference, consider your American Cancer Society.

You'll find out about our patient services that help thousands every year. Call 1-800-ACS-2345. You'll get a support system that's human and caring, one person at a time.

 
 
 
 
 
 
American Cancer Society 2
If you think just one person can’t make a difference, consider your American Cancer Society. Call us to find out about our patient services, which help thousands every year. Call 1-800-ACS-2345. You’ll get a support system that’s human and caring, one person at a time.

 
 
 
 
 
American Cancer Society 3
Ask one of the 3 million Americans who’ve survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. Please help.

 
 
 
 
 
American Intercultural Student Exchange
American Intercultural Student Exchange is seeking families like yours to host exchange students. Each year, thousands of caring U.S. families host more than 2,000 AISE exchange students. It’s an exciting way to meet people from around the world. Students spend a school year with an American family. They speak English, have their own spending money and medical insurance. Open your home to an exchange student, and share in a great cultural adventure. Call 1-800-SIBLING. American Intercultural Student Exchange -- A non-profit, tax exempt educational Foundation.

 
 
 
 
 
Americans For The Arts
There’s just not enough Art in our Schools. No wonder people think Louis Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon. It’s a long way from the Apollo Theatre to the Apollo program, but for Louis Armstrong giant leaps for mankind were simply a matter of course. For more information about the benefits of arts education, please visit us on the AmericansForTheArts.org. Just like great Louis Armstrong, all you need is a little brass. Art. Ask For More.

 
 
 
 
 
Americans For The Arts 2
There's not enough art in our schools. No wonder people think Louis Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon. Alas, the arts are dismissed as extravagant in today's schools. This, despite all the studies that show parents believe music, dance, art and drama make their children much better students and better people. If you feel like your kids aren't getting their fair share, make some noise. To find out how, or for more information about the benefits of arts education, please visit us on the web at americansforthearts.org. Just like the great Louis Armstrong, all you need is a little brass. Art. Ask for more.

 
 
 
 
 
Anheiser Busch
These are our kids. And just like your kids, it seems what we tell them goes in one ear and out the other. But guess what! When it comes to making a tough decision like whether or not to drink, kids say parents have more influence than anyone. So talk to your kids. Let’s work together to stop underage drinking before it starts.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Drug Campaign
My boy Jimmy is quite a kid. The star athlete in his class, a straight-A student, just about the best son a father could ask for. But last week, he lost his best friend Tom ... to drugs. Even good kids like Jimmy and Tommy can make bad decisions. Stay off drugs. Make the rest of your life count.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Drug Campaign
My boy Jimmy is quite a kid. The star athlete in his class, a straight-A student, just about the best son a father could ask for. But last week, he lost his best friend Tom ... to drugs. Even good kids like Jimmy and Tommy can make bad decisions. Stay off drugs. Make the rest of your life count.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-drug campaign
At 4:00 my kid will be at (leave a beat of silence here). If you can’t fill in the blank, you need to start asking your kid questions. It's a proven way to steer kids clear of drugs. It’s not pestering. It’s parenting. This message sponsored by the Anti-Drug Campaign

 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Drug Campaign 2
It’s not half as uncomfortable as talking to your kids about sex. But just as important. Talking to your kids about marijuana can clear up a lot of the questions they might have. And the ones you might have, too. Talking about marijuana can also make your kids feel more at ease in dealing with it when they have to, which is probably more often than you think. Besides, after everything else you’ve talked to them about, it’s not as uncomfortable as you might expect. For more information and a fact-filled booklet, call 1-800-788-2800.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Drug Campaign 3
At 4:00 my kid will be at _________________________. If you can’t fill in the blank, you need to start asking. It's a proven way to steer kids clear of drugs. It’s not pestering. It’s parenting. ASK: WHO? WHAT? WHEN? WHERE? QUESTIONS. THE ANTI-DRUG.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Drug Campaign 4
Talking to your friends about their problems with drugs and alcohol might not be easy. But it can make all the difference. Courage. The anti-drug.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Smoking
Kids need to talk about not smoking with someone they can trust. YOU. The "Take 10" challenge invites you to take a written pledge to discuss with your children why they shouldn't smoke. Once you sign, we'll also send you the tools you'll need to get your conversation started.

 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Smoking 2
Passing gas around infants. Can be deadly. Passing gas releases a toxic fog of ammonia and hydrogen cyanide, which can be especially harmful on an infant's developing lungs. Passing gas can even contribute to sudden infant death syndrome. Kids shouldn't be exposed to second hand smoke. Don't pass gas - take it outside.

 
 
 
 
 
Appalachia Childrens Fund
In Appalachia, there are still little children like Amy who go to bed hungry at night - little children who are deprived of the basic necessities, right here in America. For just $24 a month, you can sponsor a child in desperate need. You can provide food, warm clothes, health and school needs - and maybe even a toy or two.

 
 
 
 
 
Arthritis Foundation
There’s something you can do -- right now -- that will ease the pain of arthritis in years to come. By remembering The Arthritis Foundation in your will, you can help us find ways to stop this serious, often crippling disease. A disease that affects one in every seven Americans. Call THE ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION, at 1-800-552-HAND. It’s time we took arthritis seriously.

 
 
 
 
 
Asthma
For a kid with asthma, the joys of childhood quickly become living nightmares. A playful kitten, a cuddly puppy, a bouquet of flowers, all are potential triggers for terrifying attacks. Don’t let Asthma rob another childhood. Call 1800-Lung-USA. The American Lung Association.

 
 
 
 
 
Avon Walk For Breast Cancer
The Avon Walk for Breast Cancer. 2 Days. 39 Miles. A lifetime of hope. Everyone has a personal reason for joining the Avon Walk for Breast Cancer. It may be a sister, mother, best friend, or perhaps even your own diagnosis. But for one weekend-whether you walk or volunteer-we’ll all be moving towards the same goal-finding a cure for breast cancer.
Together, we’ll create incredible memories. As a walker or volunteer, you’ll share a life-changing journey with others who share your commitment to ending breast cancer. Gather your friends and family and create an Avon Walk team of walkers and volunteers.

 
 
 
 
 
Be A Hero
In five minutes or less. To help Zimbabwe's teens resist the lure of so-called sugar daddies-men who buy clothes for the girls and pay their school fees in exchange for sex-an American named Nancy Padian started SHAZ(Shaping the Health of Adolescents in Zimbabwe). Your $10 gift, made through Women's Global Health Imperative (wghi.org) provides job training for girls; $25 covers a semester's school fees.

 
 
 
 
 
Be Fire Ready
If you're in two minds, leave early.
The best way to prepare for this fire season, is to stay informed and plan to leave early before you see moke or fire.
Talk to everyone you live with, so you all know when you're going to leave and when you're ging to go, if a fire starts.
Pack a relocation kit with important documents and essential items.'
On high risk days. check fire danger ratings, and fire warnings on the CFA wesite and listen to local radio.
Don't wait and hope for the best. Visit the CFA website to find out how you can be Fire Ready.
Visit CFA.vic.gov.au or call 1800 250 667, Prepare. Act, Survive.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Best Friends Animal Sanctuary
What’s more romantic than cuddling old dogs, cooing over kittens, walking potbellied pigs, cleaning bunny pens and shoveling horse manure? Just ask Takiko May and John Ewing. Instead of sipping mai-tais in Maui, they spent their honeymoon as volunteers doing just that at Best Friends Animal Sanctuary in Kanab, Utah.
______________________
script by jamesromick

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bill Mccollum For Congress
Results … few people in office have been able to deliver results like Bill McCollum. Take the Naval Training Center for example. The Pentagon said close it! Bill McCollum said not so fast. The decision was reversed … 18,000 jobs saved. Results … that’s what we get from our Congressman … Bill McCollum. Paid for by the MCCOLLUM FOR CONGRESS Committee.

 
 
 
 
 
Blythedale Children’s Hospital
Founded more than 100 years ago, Blythedale Children’s Hospital is a 92 bed non-profit children’s hospital serving youngsters from birth through age 19. Through its inpatient and day hospital programs, it treats more than 300 children daily making it one of the largest children’s services in the state. In addition, the hospital provides diagnosis and treatment of hundreds of outpatients with a wide range of specialties. Other services provided by the Hospital’s multi-disciplinary teams include nursing, physical, occupational, speech and recreation therapies, psychological counseling, respiratory therapy and social services.

 
 
 
 
 
Boys & Girls Club
Put this card in the hands of a child and there’ll be no room for a gun. A needle. Or a knife. It’s only a piece of paper, but that little membership card has helped keep millions of kids off drugs, out of gangs and in school. To learn how you can help the Boys & Girls Clubs, call 1-800-854-Club. Boys & Girls Clubs of America. The POSITIVE Place For Kids.

 
 
 
 
 
Breast Cancer Research
Remember your best friend from childhood? Remember swearing you’d be best friends forever. Well she just found a lump in her breast. One out of every eight women will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. With your help, we will change that statistic. So join the fight. If not for yourself, for someone you love.

 
 
 
 
 
Breast Cancer Research 2
In the U.S. alone, over 200,000 women and 1,300 men will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year – 40,000 will die. Let’s not rest until we win the battle against breast cancer. With your help, we can erase this disease – for good. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.

 
 
 
 
 
Breast Cancer Research Foundation
Breast Cancer doesn’t just affect women. Consider the families and friends whose lives are also changed. In the U.S. alone 215,990 women and 1,450 men will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year and over 40,000 will die. We cannot rest until we win the battle against breast cancer. At the Breast Cancer Research Foundation a minimum of 85 cents of every dollar donated goes directly to cancer research and awareness programs. The Foundation has a 4 star rating, the highest possible, from Charity Navigator, and an “A” from the American Institute of Philanthropy. For more information, go to our website at www.bcrfcure.org or call toll free 866 Find-A-Cure. With your help we can erase this disease for good. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation. Prevention and a Cure in our lifetime.

 
 
 
 
 
Breathless - Quit Smoking Campaign
Imagine your body being buried while you’re still in it. Imagine the horror.

You’d struggle. But struggling only makes it worse.

Imagine your whole life reduced to thinking about your next breath.

Eventually, you’d welcome death… but an emphysema sufferer can go on living like this for years.

If you smoke, death could be the least of your worries. Stop, before the suffering starts.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Bridgeport Hospital Medication Form
Call Bridgeport Hospital for a free Medication Form to help you keep track of your medications, allergies and and other important information! It comes with a wallet sized protective sleeve. Just dial 384-4444.

 
 
 
 
 
Buckle Up - If You Hear This Sound
(Sound of motor revving up)

If you hear this sound (seat belt warning ping) it means you forgot to fasten your seatbelt.

(Horns honking and screeching tires)

This sound means it’s too late.

Give safety a hand. Everyone buckle up.

(Total 15 second PSA)

Contributed by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
California AIDS Prevention Campaign
You have the power to do something right now that could drastically affect the rest of your life. It doesn't involve decisions about college, or work, or joinng the military or anything like that. It simply involves using a condom if you're having sex. See, the risk of getting HIV and AIDS is still out there and these days, half the people who get HIV are 24 years old or younger. You can trust the person you're with, you can love the person you're with, but trust and love can't stop HIV - condoms can. The person you're with may look fine, but they could be infected. And having unprotected sex just once can turn your whole life upside down. Every 15 minutes of every day another person 24 or younger gets infected with HIV. Make sure you're not one of them. Respect yourself, protect yourself. Have questions, call 1.800.922.AIDS. Brought to you by the California AIDS Prevention Campaign.

 
 
 
 
 
 
California Aids Prevention Campaign – HIV
You have the power to do something right now that could drastically affect the rest of your life. It doesn't involve decisions about college, or work, or joining the military or anything like that. It simply involves using a condom if you're having sex. See, the risk of getting HIV and AIDS is still out there and these days, half the people who get HIV are 24 years old or younger. When you can trust the person you're with you can love the person you're with, but trust and love can't stop HIV - condoms can. The person you're with may look fine, but they could be infected. And having unprotected sex just once can turn your whole life upside down. Every 15 minutes of every day another person 24 or younger gets infected with HIV. Make sure you're not one of them, respect yourself, protect yourself. Have questions; call 1-800-922-AIDS. Brought to you by the California AIDS Prevention Campaign.

 
 
 
 
 
Cancer - My friend Jackie
A life time of smoking was odds that she just couldn’t beat.
Doctors said she could maybe live 9 months with Chemo…6 months without.
She chose the latter. She was 58 and I miss her a lot.
I do not know if Cancer can be beat but I do know that smoking can.
So...if not for yourself, then do it for someone else…do it for my friend Jackie!

 
 
 
 
 
 
Cancer and my friend Jackie
A life time of smoking was odds that she just couldn’t beat.
Doctors said she could maybe live 9 months with Chemo…6 months without.
She chose the latter. She was 58 and I miss her a lot.
I do not know if Cancer can be beat but I do know that smoking can.
So...if not for yourself, then do it for someone else…do it for my friend Jackie!

 
 
 
 
 
 
Cancer Care
A cancer diagnosis changes everything. It turns someone¹s world upside down- emotionally, physically, and even financially. Cancer Care can help. Please call us at 1-800-813-HOPE. When someone understands, it makes all the difference in your world.

 
 
 
 
 
Cancer Free Anniversary
Today, my friends are throwing me a party. They do it every year on this date. it's not my birthday, but it is the fifth anniversary of the day I was told my cancer was in remission. And it's a day I thought I would never see.

 
 
 
 
 
Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital
Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital is proud to be Virginia's first accredited Chest Pain Center. So when you come in with chest pain or other symptoms of a heart attack, such as pain in the arm or jaw, Carilion makes every second count. Carilion is saving lives. Call 266-6000 or visit carilion.com for more information.

 
 
 
 
 
Casey Family Services
A very special little girl is in trouble ... and she needs your help. Her name is Crystal, and her childhood hasn’t been easy, but she’s bright, talented, full of laughter and spirit. To learn more about Crystal and others like her, call CASEY FAMILY SERVICES AT 1-800-332-6991. You can help kids get the love and caring they deserve. Please call now.

 
 
 
 
 
Cell Phones Save Lives
A national TV and radio campaign for the Donate A Phone program seeks to collect as many of the country's inactive cell phones as possible. The phones help domestic violence victims to get a hold of emergency assistance quickly.

 
 
 
 
 
Childhelp USA
Every day in the United States, 3 children die as a result of maltreatment in the home, and child abuse is reported, on average, every 10 seconds. This year, approximately 3 million cases of child abuse will be reported. However, most experts believe the actual number of instances is three times that number. However, there are anonymous and confidential places to turn to for information about reporting suspected abuse. Americans should trust their instincts and act on behalf of a child, because organizations such as Childhelp USA can offer the support and information necessary to help transform a child's life.

 
 
 
 
 
Choose Or Lose: MTV
18 million 18 to 30-year-olds voted in the last presidential election. Who knows what would have happened if 20 million had. 20 Million loud in 2004- Choose or Loose. Go to MTV.com or call 1800 VOTE SMART for more information.

 
 
 
 
 
Choosing The Right Health Plan
The open enrollment period for your health insurance plan comes once every year, usually during the fall. With so many insurers and employers raising health insurance premiums and scaling back benefits, you need to know how your health plan stacks.

 
 
 
 
 
Chronic Migraine
Maybe today, chronic migraine won't stand in your way.
If you have migraines with 15 or more headache days a month, you're living a Maybe Life. And you may also be living with chronic migraine.
But knowing this thing you're going through has a name means knowing you can find treatments that are right for you.
To find a headache specialist and for more information, visit mychronicmigraine.com.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Citizens’ Committee For Children
As a parent, I know what city kids face in the streets today is bad enough. And now, Mayor Guiliani wants to slash school building improvements and after-school youth programs...all of which are essential to keeping youngsters off the streets. Don’t let this happen to our children’s futures. Call the Mayor and your council representative. Tell them you want to put kids first, not last, when they plan the city budget. A message from CITIZENS’ COMMITTEE FOR CHILDREN.

 
 
 
 
 
Cleveland Clinic
The #1 heart care in nation.
18 years in a row.
It’s why 24,498 people traveled to Cleveland last year for heart care.
The Cleveland Clinic.
Because every life deserves world class care.
Same-day appointments available.
Call 1-855-299-APPT
Or go on-line at clevelandclinic.org

 
 
 
 
 
 
Climate Star
Very Hot. And getting hotter. Unfortunately, thanks to global warming, the 1990s were the hottest decade on record. And scientists predict it’s going to keep getting warmer. That means big changes: rising sea levels, more intense storms, droughts, and flooding. The way we use fuel and energy is causing global warming, but we can slow it down if we take action now. Global warming isn’t cool. Stopping it is. Find out how you can make a difference. Visit www.ClimateStar.org for more information.

 
 
 
 
 
College Prep
Hey…wake up…you can’t dream your way into college. There are actual steps you need to take. Steps that go beyond just getting good grades. So if you’re serious about college, visit know-how-to-go-dot-org today. Brought to you by the American Council on Education, Lumina Foundation for Education and the Ad Council.

 
 
 
 
 
Connecticut Partnership For Long-term Care
Five years ago, my Mom was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and now needs constant care. But neither health insurance or Medicare would cover the cost. For over 40 years my folks built a nest egg for their retirement. But Mom’s bills were staggering -- over $250,000. All their savings they worked their lives for were wiped out in just a few years. There is a way to prevent this from happening to you. It’s called the Connecticut Partnership for Long-term Care. To find out how the state can help, call for a free brochure. 1-800-773-INFO.

 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Information Catalog
The Consumer Information Catalog from Pueblo, Colorado lists more than 200 free and low-cost, helpful, federal publications. You’ll get the latest info on topics like investing your money, getting fit, parenting, even getting federal benefits. For the latest free catalog, call toll-free 1-888-8-PUEBLO.

 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Information Center
A message from the Consumer Information Center...in Pueblo, Colorado. If you'd like to...give your house some minor tweaks, fix up teeny, weeny leaks...Run a shop that's all your own...buy yourself a cozy home... Steer away from crummy deals, protect your car from roof to wheels... Trim your tummy, thighs and hips...go on safe, exotic trips... Stay away from hacks and quacks, blow away those sneeze attacks... Teach your kids the ABC's, how to write and how to read... Get rid of little pests that bug you, ones that crawl or buzz above you... Bag the junk food in your diet, know what's inside before you buy it... Bank on stocks and count on bonds, stay away from market cons... Then you'll want this free and helpful book, listing 200 Government pamphlets. Look! For this new edition, just drop a line, write: New Catalog, Pueblo, Colorado 81009.

 
 
 
 
 
Coors Foundation For Family Literacy
For the 27 million Americans who can’t read, competing in today’s marketplace is nearly impossible. And unfortunately, the future for children of illiterate parents is not much brighter. You can help fight illiteracy by reading to a child. And by giving a child a book. Brought to you by THE COORS FOUNDATION FOR FAMILY LITERACY. Because a child who reads will succeed.

 
 
 
 
 
Dave Thomas Foundation For Adoption
Today, in the United States, over 134,000 children wait in foster care for adoptive families. Many are siblings that need to stay together, others are older or may have special needs. Yet they all have something in common: a desire to be part of a permanent, loving family. If you’ve ever considered adopting please call 1-800-ASK-DTFA, Dave Thomas Foundation For Adoption.

 
 
 
 
 
Domestic Violence
She doesn’t talk about her bruises. She doesn’t talk about her depression. She doesn’t talk about her missing days at work. So how do you tell her you’ve noticed? If your friend is a victim of domestic abuse, talk to her about it and don’t stop talking until the violence stops. To find out how, call 1-800-VIOLENCE for a free brochure.

 
 
 
 
 
Don’t Drink And Drive
#1: My older brother had everything going for him. I always looked up to him. He just had a way with people. But last Saturday night, Tom left us ... forever. And all because of a drink he should never have had. You see, in high school, the other kids think it’s cool to drink and drive. We know better. DON’T DRINK AND DRIVE. It changes everything.

 
 
 
 
 
Don’t Drink And Drive 2
Ya know, I never thought John would get to this point. It used to be just a couple of drinks at a party, maybe an occasional drink after work, but he would never drive drunk, or so I thought. If I had only stopped him before he got into his car, maybe John would be here today. Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.

 
 
 
 
 
Don’t Drink And Drive 3
A drinking and driving conviction could cost you more than 20,000 dollars. You could lose you license, your friends, or your life. Fairfax Community council on impaired driving and the government of Fairfax want you to arrive alive. Drive sober.

 
 
 
 
 
Drug Abuse PSA
Drug abuse may not be an epidemic, but it is a major public health problem. The impact on American society is staggering. Each year, drug abuse kills 14,000 Americans and costs taxpayers nearly $70 billion in unnecessary health care costs, extra law enforcement, auto accidents, crime and lost productivity. Illicit drug abuse hurts families, businesses, and neighborhoods, impedes education, and chokes the criminal justice, health and social service systems. While overall use of drugs in the United States has fallen by half in the last 15 years, adolescent drug use continues at high levels. Teach your children to stay off drugs.

 
 
 
 
 
Drug Abuse PSA
Drug abuse may not be an epidemic, but it is a major public health problem. The impact on American society is staggering. Each year, drug abuse kills 14,000 Americans and costs taxpayers nearly $70 billion in unnecessary health care costs, extra law enforcement, auto accidents, crime and lost productivity. Illicit drug abuse hurts families, businesses, and neighborhoods, impedes education and chokes the criminal justice, health and social service systems. While overall use of drugs in the United States has fallen by half in the last 15 years, adolescent drug use continues at high levels. Teach your children to stay off drugs.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug Free America
As a parent, you want to so everything you can to keep your kids from experimenting with drugs like pot. It would be a whole lot easier if they came with instructions. But they don’t. We can help. Play with them. Read to them. Sing with them. Teach them a joke. Laugh. Listen. Talk. Be involved. Call 1-800-788-2800. We’ll send you information on what else parents can do. Also visit drugfreeamerica.org You can make a difference.

 
 
 
 
 
Emergency Broadcast System
This is a test of the Emergency Broadcast System. The broadcasters of your area in voluntary cooperation with the FCC and other authorities have developed this system to keep you informed in the event of an emergency.

If this had been an actual emergency, you would have been instructed where to tune in your area for news and official information.

This concludes this test of the Emergency Broadcast System.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Energy Star Lightbulbs
The traditional lightbulb: a ground-breaking invention in 1879. It's time we switch to longer-lasting Energy Star lightbulbs. They're more efficient than the old bulbs -- like a text message is more efficient than a carrier pigeon. And they cut down on our energy costs. Because in our own ground-breaking age, we deserve a light bulb that saves us some cash. Saving energy saves you money. Learn more at Energy Savers dot gov. Brought to you by the U.S. Department of Energy and the Ad Council.

Uploaded by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Defense Fund
A little reminder from the Environmental Defense Fund that if you’re not recycling, you’re throwing away a lot more than just your trash. You and your community can recycle. So for a free brochure, please call the Environmental Defense Fund at 1-800-EDF-1234.

 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Defense Fund 2
Thanks to you, all sorts of everyday products are being made from materials you’ve recycled. But to keep recycling working to help the environment, you need to buy those products. So look for products made from recycled materials, and buy them. It would mean the world to all of us. For a free brochure, please call 1-800-CALL-EPA.

 
 
 
 
 
EPA Residential Energy Star Program
Out of all the planets in our solar system, there is but one element which sets Earth apart ... and sustains the framework of life. Our atmosphere. Within this delicate balance lie the secrets of our wildlife ... our forests ... our streams ... and our future. In over 100 million households across America, the Energy Star program allows every American to play a vital role in reducing air pollution. You can help fight air pollution by calling the EPA at 1-800-POLLUTE.

 
 
 
 
 
Facts up Front
Now key nutrition facts from the back of the package can also be found right up front on America's favorite brands. Making it easier for busy shoppers to make informed decisions.

By knowing your daily limits for calories, sodium and fat, you can choose the foods—and the amounts—that are right for you.

Go to FactsUpFront.org to find the nutrition targets for everyone in your family. Along with shopping tips, recipe ideas and more.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Family Violence
As a dad, you’ll probably spend years teaching your son how to hit a baseball. But the question is this: How much time will you spend teaching him what not to hit? Teach your son early and often that all violence against women is wrong. For tips on what to say visit www.endabuse.org.

 
 
 
 
 
Fatherhood
According to a recent survey, 86 percent of dads spend more time with their children today than
their own fathers did with them. However, 7 out of 10 also reported that they could use tips on
how to be a better parent. The smallest moments can have the biggest impact on a child’s life.
Take time to be a dad today. For more information call 877-4DAD-411or visit fatherhood.gov.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Forest Stewardship Council
From musical instruments to furniture to flooring--all around the world--just about anything can be made out of independently certified wood that carries the Forest Stewardship Council label. It’s certified wood: wood as good as the forest it comes from. A forest that has been independently certified to meet the highest standards for environmentally and socially responsible forestry. A forest that will be there for our children to use and enjoy. To protect our forests for future generations, ask for independently certified wood in your new house. Ask for the FSC label. ... Make the Forest Stewardship Council a household name. And do our forests a world of good.

 
 
 
 
 
Forest Stewardship Council 2
You don't have to be a special agent to protect our forests. Everyone can help. Ask for the Forest Stewardship Council label when you buy wooden furniture, flooring, lumber and other forest products. The nonprofit FSC label is your assurance that forests are managed well. That's why World Wildlife Fund, Greenpeace, Rainforest Alliance and the National Wildlife Federation all support the FSC. For more information, visit www.fscus.org or call toll-free 1-877-FSC-LOGO

 
 
 
 
 
Friends
You still recall every detail...the four of you met up at the club house for a burger, you and David divvied-up clubs in the parking lot so Rob had a set to play with, Bailey broke 115..but you carted a 96, and that was plenty good enough. Because while you lost nine balls, you gained three friends for a lifetime.

 
 
 
 
 
Funeral Costs
A funeral or cremation service – in its broadest sense – includes all of the professional services of the funeral director and staff, the use of the facilities, equipment, motor vehicles and desired merchandise. The total cost will vary according to your own selections. Our funeral directors will freely explain the entire range of pricing for all of the items of the service, and will encourage you to select only those services and merchandise which you desire. Our funeral directors will also share your concern that the items you select are appropriate and within your means. We encourage you to talk frankly with our funeral directors about costs and pricing information at any time. Every effort will be made to accommodate you with a method of payment that will be responsive to your particular circumstance.

 
 
 
 
 
Gilda’s Club
Man’s best friend. Woman’s best friend. Kid’s best friend. Anyone living with cancer’s best friend. Meet Sparkle. She’s a playful pooch that’ll brighten your day. Especially since Russ Berrie and Company will donate a portion of the proceeds to Gilda’s Club Worldwide, a nonprofit organization that provides loving support and vital resources to people living with cancer. So put a little Sparkle in your life. Adopt her today.

 
 
 
 
 
Girls’ Self-Esteem
Does a hero know she’s a hero if no one tells her? Do you know a hero no one else knows? A hero doesn’t have to save a busload of school kids from certain disaster. Or score the winning point to the big game. A hero can be anyone who inspires you, anyone you look up to, anyone who cheers you on, makes you better than you were before--just as they made themselves better than they were before. Do you know a hero? Tell her. Then tell everyone.

 
 
 
 
 
Girls’ Self-Esteem 2
Will she look at magazines and think she has to be as thin as the models she sees? Think that independence makes her less desirable? Lower her expectations because she can’t find women to look up to? Will she grow up questioning the things we don’t? Will she be confident enough that these issues don’t bother her at all? If she plays sports, if she’s healthy and strong and self-assured, they won’t. Being active can make a difference in the lives of women and in the lives of generations of women to come. So talk about what bothers you. Then change it.

 
 
 
 
 
Global Warming
Global Warming. We can still make a difference. If every family replaced three frequently used light bulbs with compact fluorescent bulbs, it’s like taking 3.5 million cars off the road. Find out more at fightglobalwarming.com. Brought to you by Environmental Defense, the Robertson Foundation, and the Ad Council.

 
 
 
 
 
Go Army.com
Talk to some real soldiers about the army. You'll learn about over 200 opportunities with guaranteed skill training and all of the other benefits the army offers. Like how you can earn up to 50,000 dollars to pay for college, or up to 65,000 dollars to pay back qualified student loans. Plus you can qualify for an enlistment bonus of up to 20,000 dollars. Visit goarmy.com

 
 
 
 
 
Golden Gate Bridge 75th Anniversary-Wells Fargo
May 27, 1937. As evening descends to a chorus of oohs and aahs, where the night before stood only blackness, an icon of human accomplishment now illuminates the sky, and a new era of connectivity and commerce is ushered in with celebration and fireworks.

It was at that moment that the Golden Gate Bridge became an integral part of Bay Area life, as it remains to this day; an every day reminder that the Bay Area is a place where nothing is impossible, and dreams become reality.

The Golden Gate Bridge and Wells Fargo each continue to play leading roles in the growth and development of the Bay Area, and we're honored to help bring the celebrations of the Golden Gate Bridge 75th Anniversary to life.

To Learn more, visit ggb75.wellsfargo.com.

The Golden Gate Bridge and Wells Fargo - built in the Bay Area.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Habitat For Humanity
Every 7 minutes around the world, Habitat for Humanity serves a family in need of decent housing. Affordable housing solutions might differ from place to place, but to the families who dream of them, help build them and eventually inhabit them, they all add up to just one thing. Home.

script by jamesromick

 
 
 
 
 
 
Haiti Relief
In January 2010, a deadly earthquake struck Haiti. The destruction was unimaginable.

Even the capitol building lies in ruins.

Rubble is everywhere and people are still digging out.

A quarter million dead, countless injured. Buildings, schools, and homes leveled to the ground. Survivors still living in makeshift shelters With no money to rebuild.

As you head into the countryside, you can see some emergency aid is getting through…

and you can see the sad but hopeful faces of children.

Beyond the city, supplies can’t reach people until roads are cleared.

More aid is still needed. People need food and water day after day…and the water must be not just potable, but portable as well…because so many people are located in hard-to-reach places.

That's why Jusuru (Joo-SOO-roo) has donated to the international relief effort. Though our chief product is a nutritional supplement, we also manufacture oxygenated water. We shipped our entire inventory to Haiti as soon as we learned about the disaster and a Jusuru team was on hand to help distribute clean water, along with clothing, sandals, toiletries, and first aid kits.

To learn more about Jusuru’s Giving Program, contact the person who shared this video with you.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Hat's Off To You Boston!
Hat's off to you Boston!
For showing everyone
What it means to be a Yankee!

Contributed by Richurd

 
 
 
 
 
 
Hear – Informative – Motherly - Urgency
Your hearing may not be something that you think too much about. But after exposing your ears to repeated loud decibel levels in music and noise, you may be very concerned about protecting what's left of it. Hearing loss from noise is irreversible. Once it's gone, it's gone. The good news is that it's completely preventable. To find out what you need to know to protect your hearing and still enjoy the music. Contact: HEAR at www.HEARNET.COM or the H.E.A.R. Hotline at 415-773-9590

 
 
 
 
 
Hearing Loss
Just like one out of every ten of us, I have a hearing loss. I was able to overcome my hearing loss thanks to hearing aids--one in each ear. Today, most people with hearing loss can be helped either through advances in hearing aid technology or medical treatment. but to get help you must act. If you or someone you know has a hearing loss, please get a hearing test. That’s the first step on the road to better hearing. If you would like more information on hearing problems and treatments, call the Hearing HelpLine at 1-800-EAR WELL for the free booklet, “Help Through Hearing Aids.”

 
 
 
 
 
Hearing Loss
Hearing Loss
Just like one out of every ten of us, I have a hearing loss. I was able to overcome my hearing loss thanks to hearing aids--one in each ear. Today, most people with hearing loss can be helped either through advances in hearing aid technology or medical treatment. but to get help you must act. If you or someone you know has a hearing loss, please get a hearing test. That’s the first step on the road to better hearing. If you would like more information on hearing problems and treatments, call the Hearing HelpLine at 1-800-EAR WELL for the free booklet, “Help Through Hearing Aids.”

 
 
 
 
 
 
Heath care Marketplace
Hi, this is Steve, and if you need health insurance, check out the new Health
Insurance Marketplace at HealthCare.gov. You’re running out of time. Sign up for health
insurance before the March 31 deadline. Find an affordable health plan – and get covered today at HealthCare.gov.

 
 
 
 
 
 
I Am Anxiety
I’ve been expecting you. Why? Don’t tell me you don’t recognize me? Oh! You still don’t know who I am. Let me try and help you with that. I am the ill ease that you feel when you walk into a crowded room. You know. The hot and cold flushes that confuse you when you are already confused enough. I am the one that raises the whip to your already raising heart. I am the tightening of your chest. The snowballing worries that feel like they might become an avalanche and they can just bury you in an instant. My friend I am the obsessive and the compulsive. I’m the voice. You know the one. Always questioning, questioning, questioning, everything you do, everything you think. And I am every, single staring eye that watches you. So, now that we have become acquainted, what are you going to do about it?
Tag: 1 in 4 people experience anxiety. And most don’t know about it. You need to know anxiety to be free from it.
Visit beyondblue.org.au or call 1300 22 4636.

 
 
 
 
 
 
In This Place - PSA
This. This is where we are. A place where parents provide beer to 17-year-olds…where 9th graders drink rum from coke cans during school, and kids take their first drink as young as 9 or 10. A place where alcohol tastes like lemonade, and doing 12 to 15 shots a night is commonplace.

How did it get so far away from how you and I remember it? How did casual beer drinking turn into a hard-hitting, no rules sport? Where did the line between having fun and getting blind drunk get blurred? And how did we unknowingly get swept along?

How did we land here? In this place.

 
 
 
 
 
 
International Family Planning
As long as there’s a Third World, there will never be one world. By meeting women’s critical need for family planning services in a developing world, we would see a marked improvement in the quality of life for all. Access to voluntary conception, health care and sex education, would allow women to space pregnancies apart and plan the size of their families...leading to better health, more educational opportunities, and reduced pressure on our planet’s natural resources. Help make a world of difference. Support International Family Planning.

 
 
 
 
 
International Reading Association
Children have a right to appropriate early reading instruction based on their individual needs. International Reading Association – making a difference means making it different.

 
 
 
 
 
Internet Dating
(Dramatic piano music. Police sirens, forensics team shuffling through evidence – picture being snapped, beeping machines, walkie talkies) Before you start an online relationship with a guy, think about how it could end.

 
 
 
 
 
Internet Safety
(Computer key click) That's the sound of: your classmate, forwarding a picture from your profile to everyone he knows. (Computer key click) Some guys posting graphic comments about your body. And worst of all, (Computer key click) your Dad: seeing a photo of you topless. All because of (Computer key click) the time you posted those pictures on your profile. Anything you post online, anyone can see: family, friends, and even not so friendly people.

 
 
 
 
 
Internet Safety 2
(Computer download ding) That's the sound of: your classmate receiving an attachment of you posing in your underwear. (Computer download ding) Your ex boyfriend forwarding the picture to his friends. (Computer download ding) It being sent to your coach. And worst of all, (Computer download ding) your dad . All because of (Computer download ding) the time you posted those pictures on our profile. Anything you post online, anyone can see. So think before you post. For more information visit www.cybertipline.com.

 
 
 
 
 
Jimmy Fund
Hyundai's a proud sponsor of the Jimmy Fund. Hyundai and the Jimmy Fund help these kids fight cancer.

 
 
 
 
 
John Hopkins
Sometimes it’s easy to tell, other times the problems are hidden. You feel fine one day and the next, severe fatigue, chest pain, poor coloring. Signs your heart is in trouble. But coronary artery disease doesn’t have to be a surprise. John Hopkins has the most advanced technologies and world reknowed physicians to diagnose any heart problem.

 
 
 
 
 
Junior Achievement
Who have you inspired today? Introducing Another Kind of Hero. Just a few hours in Junior Achievement can open a whole new world of learning for kids. They understand how to start a company, how to be a leader and even how to shake a hand with confidence. Right now, we need your time in the classroom. Please volunteer. And let their success be your inspiration. To find out more about Junior Achievement's Volunteer Program, call 212-949-JANY (5269) or visit www.jany.com

 
 
 
 
 
Keep The Promise
America needs more schools that encourage our children to fulfill their promise. So they can succeed in the competitive world they will soon face. Call 1-800-96-PROMISE, and we’ll send you information on how you can help change the schools in your community. KEEP THE PROMISE.

 
 
 
 
 
La Fiesta Del Sol
(the sound of food cooking on a grill, whistles) The rhythmic beating of the drums, the cheerful tinkling of rain sticks, and the mouthwatering aroma of chimichangas… yes, its Fiesta time again in Lincoln Park! Bring the kids, your in-laws, your neighbor, and even their dog to join in the fun at this flavorful and exotic celebration of Central, South American, and African culture. Taste food from kitchens around the world in your own backyard and dance to sultry sambas with performers in traditional dress. It doesn’t get any better than this! Join the Fiesta this long weekend at Lincoln Park. Hope to see you there!

 
 
 
 
 
Leukemia & Lymphoma
Join the team that's saving lives! The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, and train for a marathon, bike ride or triathalon. (male v/o) Click now to visit Teamintraining.org.

 
 
 
 
 
Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
You see these people? They're the new generation of blood cancer patients. They live normal lives, some managing their condition with just a daily pill, thanks to the discoveries funded in part by The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. And these discoveries apply to many different kinds of cancer. In the past 12 years, almost half the cancer therapies approved by the FDA were first approved for blood cancer patients, and many were advanced with the support from LLS. Forget someday. We're making cures happen today. Are you aware of how close we are to many new life-saving breakthroughs? Or how you can help?
Find out at lls.org or call 1-888-HELP-LLS.
The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Someday Is Today.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Lord Sheldon For Parliament
Tory Party member Lord Sheldon is a common sense conservative businessman and educator running to succeed the Liberal member in Parliament. Listen to Lord Sheldon because he believes deeply in lower taxes, less government and more freedom. These are the principles that have made this country great. Lord Sheldon wants a country that is free, prosperous and strong. The country’s best years are ahead of us if taxes are lower and there is less government spending and regulation. Vote Lord Sheldon for Parliament.

 
 
 
 
 
Make A Wish Foundation
When a child has a life-threatening illness, most people concede there’s nothing that can be done. But there is. Each child has a dream. Or a need. Or a wish. The sole ambition of Make-A-Wish is to grant these wishes. You can make a contribution to help other children experience their dream come true. Call the Make-A-Wish Foundation at 1-800-722-WISH.

 
 
 
 
 
Marijuana
Teenagers are at a critical point in building the academic foundation for the rest of their lives. But experts agree, marijuana has no place in the equation for success. Don’t let drugs compromise your child’s ability to learn. Parents. The Anti-Drug.

 
 
 
 
 
Memorial Day - We Remember
In honor of those who paid the ultimate price…protecting the freedom we enjoy today.

We remember.

Submitted by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
Memorial Sloan—kettering
Children diagnosed with cancer need specialized care right from the start. That’s why, if the diagnosis is cancer, you should call Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, first. Our team of specialists treats more children with cancer than any other hospital in the nation. With expertise and compassion, we are devoted to helping and healing children with cancer. So if someone you love is diagnosed with cancer, call us first for the help –and hope— you need. 1-800-525-2225. Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The Best Cancer Care. Anywhere.

 
 
 
 
 
Mid-Columbia Meals on Wheels
Mid-Columbia Meals on Wheels - 30-Second PSA
The “Golden Years.” Too often, the “golden years” can mean mean a tight budget, loneliness, depression, and yes, hunger. Consider a donation of money, your time, or both to the Mid-Columbia Meals on Wheels program. To find out how you can help your elderly neighbors, call Meals on Wheels at 735-1911, or visit them on line at Home Delivered Meals dot org. You can help take the tarnish off the “golden years.”

 
 
 
 
 
 
Mid-Columbia Meals on Wheels - 30-Second PSA
The “Golden Years.” Too often, the “golden years” can mean mean a tight budget, loneliness, depression, and yes, hunger. Consider a donation of money, your time, or both to the Mid-Columbia Meals on Wheels program. To find out how you can help your elderly neighbors, call Meals on Wheels at 735-1911, or visit them on line at Home Delivered Meals dot org. You can help take the tarnish off the “golden years.”

 
 
 
 
 
 
Milk
Serious about healthy weight loss? Recent studies suggest that including low-fat, or fat-free milk as part of a reduced calorie diet, is a healthy, effective way to loose weight. And hey…you’ve already got it your fridge. 24 ounces in 24 hours…milk your diet…lose weight.

 
 
 
 
 
Mourning in America
There’s mourning in America. Today, 15 million men and women won’t have the opportunity to go to work. Businesses shuttered. 29 Hundred families will have their homes foreclosed by nightfall. This afternoon, 6,000 men and women will be married. Each of their children to be born with a $30,000 share of the runaway national debt. Our government is now taking over the choices we once made in life. There’s mourning in America. Under the leadership of President Obama, our country is fading and weaker and worse off. His policies were a grand experiment…policies that failed. This November, let’s choose a smaller, more caring government. One that remembers us.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Musicians On Call 4th Annual Benefit Concert And Auction
Delivering the healing power of music. Musicians On Call 4th Annual Benefit Concert and Auction. January 29th at Hard Rock Café Times Square. Special performance by Seal. To purchase tickets and to bid on music memorabilia go to www dot musicians on call dot org.

 
 
 
 
 
National Flood Insurance Program
Wherever it can rain, it can flood. And where it can flood, damage to homes and businesses is a serious risk. Last year, flooding was reported in all 50 states, including many areas not usually considered to be prone to flooding. More than a third of all flood insurance claims came from those lower-risk areas. The best way to keep a heavy rain from becoming a financial disaster is to get flood insurance backed by FEMS’s National Flood Insurance Program. Visit FloodSmart.gov/info to assess your level of flood risk, estimate your premium, learn about low-cost policy options, and find an agent in your area.

 
 
 
 
 
National Immunization Hotline
Your baby is beautiful. And may be the picture of health. But there’s also a one in four chance he or she isn’t up-to-date with immunizations. One in four. Your child needs more than 12 shots over the course of five visits, before the age of two. So never assume your baby is on schedule. Ask your doctor at every visit. That way, you’ll be certain you’re giving your child a fair shot. And that’s the most beautiful thing of all. For more information, please call the National Immunization Information Hotline at 1-800-232-2522.

 
 
 
 
 
National MS Society
One of the few times we are aware of movement is when it suddenly stops. Multiple Sclerosis stops people from moving. We exist to make sure it doesn’t. With the help of people like you, the National MS Society addresses the challenges of each person whose life is affected by MS...and helps them stay connected to the great big moving world. Join the movement at NationalMSSociety.org (pronounced National MS Society dot org).

Specifics: 30sec radio spot. Original had music bed that did not have a lead in or lead out. Vocals extended to the full 30sec.

Contributed by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
National PTA
You're the kind of parent who would do anything for your child. And so would we. We're National PTA, and we support better education, more resources, and safer schools in the life of every child. Because from homework to recess, from friendships to family, your child's development never stops. And neither will we. Come join National PTA.

 
 
 
 
 
Nature Conservatory
There is no legacy more lasting than nature itself. That’s why the Nature Conservatory works with people like you to preserve special places close to your heart and home. Help us save the last Great Places around the world. Visit nature.org or call 1-888 –2- JOIN TNC.

 
 
 
 
 
Negative Thoughts
We all have problems; it's how we deal with them that makes us different. If negative thoughts are overwhelming you, you can always talk to a friend, a parent, a teacher, a guidance councillor, or a healthcare professional. Control your problems. Control you life.

 
 
 
 
 
 
No Smoking
If you make time to talk to your kids about not smoking, your words will go with them wherever they go. So even if you’re not there, your influence can be. For information and advice to help you talk to your kids about not smoking, visit our Parent Resource Center at www.philipmorrisusa.com.

 
 
 
 
 
Nonviolent Communication
While we may not believe we are "violent," our words and thoughts often lead to pain for others and ourselves. To learn more on how to improve relationships in your home and in your community, visit our website at nonviolentcommunication.com.

 
 
 
 
 
Norwalk Hospital
Every year thousands of diving accidents occur, some fatal, that are the result of poor health and preparation. Most could have been prevented if the divers were properly certified. That’s why Norwalk Hospital urges you to get Medically Certified in our diving medicine program. Call Norwalk Hospital today at 203-344-3434. Norwalk Hospital. Caring for the human need, not just the human body.

 
 
 
 
 
Office Of National Drug Control Policy
How do you talk to your kids about drugs? The best thing about this subject is that you don’t have to do it well. If you try, your kids will get the message. That you care about them. That you understand something about the conflicts they face. That you’re there when they need you. It’s okay if you don’t know much about drugs. Your kids do. But they need to know how you feel about the subject. And whether you care. For more information on how to talk to your kids about drugs, call 1-800-788-2800.

 
 
 
 
 
Onecause
Fundraising can and should be simple. With a OneCause shopping mall, OneCause does all the ongoing work. And, the fundraiser works for your school around the clock. OneCause offers shopping malls to all kinds of worthwhile organizations across the country. Our Classic program is like the School Mall, where all commissions earned go to the organization. Please tell an organization that you support about this simple fundraising program.

 
 
 
 
 
Organ Donor
Becoming an organ donor is one of the most important decisions you can make. In 2000, 3,916 Americans died while waiting for a transplant. On May 6, 2000, 55,560 patients in the United States were awaiting transplant. When deciding to become an organ donor, consider these facts: Your donor status has no effect on the care you receive. Organ and tissue recovery occurs only after every effort has been made to save your life. Organs are removed surgically from the donor without disfiguring the body. People of any age and with any medical history may still be donors. If you decide to become an organ donor, share your decision with your family now. Signing a donor card does not ensure that your organs will be donated.

 
 
 
 
 
Partnership For A Drug-Free America
Talking about alcohol, tobacco and other drugs with teens is not easy. Take advantage of everyday "teachable moments" and develop an ongoing dialogue with your teen. Teachable moments refer to events in life that allow you to use an example to talk about the bad effects of drugs, such as a news story about drugs. Your children may roll their eyes at your questions, but remember: no matter what they say, your children are counting on you to be the grown up.

 
 
 
 
 
Partnership For A Drug-free America 2
When others ask you to do drugs, what do you say to them? No way, I respect my body, man.

 
 
 
 
 
Pennies From Heaven
Say, do you have any extra pennies cluttering up your pockets, dresser drawers and glass jars? Why not put them to good use? Pennies from Heaven is a regional program that uses these unwanted coins to help the homeless. Just drop your spare change into the specially marked containers, located in over 3500 businesses throughout the Delaware Valley, and every penny goes directly to help the homeless. PENNIES FROM HEAVEN is an affiliate of “Resources for Human Development.”

 
 
 
 
 
Persistence - Abraham Lincoln
Some people would call him a loser. He ran for state office: he was beaten. He started a business: he failed. He ran for congress: he lost. He was nominated for Vice-President: he lost again.

But he knew only those who never try are the real losers. And Abraham Lincoln was no loser. Persistence...pass it on.

A message from the Foundation for a Better Life.

Direction note: original PSA ran 25 seconds in length.

Uploaded by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
Persistence - Abraham Lincoln
Some people would call him a loser. He ran for state office: he was beaten. He started a business: he failed. He ran for congress: he lost. He was nominated for Vice-President: he lost again.
But he knew only those who never try are the real losers. And Abraham Lincoln was no loser. Persistence...pass it on.
A message from the Foundation for a Better Life.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
When medicines can help people like Phyllis avoid a stroke, that’s obviously a good thing. What’s not so apparent is how dramatically the same drugs reduce nursing home costs. Stroke often leaves survivors so disabled they require nursing home care, which now averages over $30,000 a year per patient. For further information on how new medicines improve lives and save money, write THE PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION, 1100 Fifteenth Street, Northwest, Box T, Washington, D.C. 20005, or call 1-800-538-2692. Pharmaceuticals ... saving lives ... saving money.

 
 
 
 
 
Pills TV
In Tennessee, enough prescriptions have been written to give everyone age 12 and over ...
51 Hydrocodone pills ...
21 Oxycodon ...
22 Xanax ... and a host of other drugs.

No one ever plans to become a drug addict.
But prescription addiction is a state-wide affliction.
Take only as directed.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Plastics Technology
Ever heard of a crash diet in packaging? Well, plastic soft drink bottles have been slimming down for years. Take today’s popular two-liter bottles. They’re 27% lighter than they were in 1990, but still as strong and shatter resistant as ever. And, these leaner plastic bottles reduce the need for millions of pounds of packaging, helping to conserve precious natural resources. To learn more about the benefits of packaging and our environment, contact the American Plastics Council at 1-800-2-HELP-90.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Play it safe around water
It takes just 20 seconds and 5 centimeters of water for a toddler to drown. Drowning is the biggest preventable cause of death for Australian children under the age of five. It is a silent killer.
Never take your eyes off young children near or in water and always remain within arm's reach.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Playing it safe by the water
20 seconds and 5 centimeters of water is all it takes for a toddler to drown. Drowning is the biggest preventable cause of death for Ajustralian children under the age of five. It is a silent killer.
Never take your eyes off young children near or in water and always remain within arm's reach.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Power For Living
Fear consumed my every waking moment. It wasn’t rational but there it was, ruining my life. Then one day I came across a book called Power For Living. From the very first chapter, it helped me confront my fear head-on. In a world filled with easy answers and cheap solutions, Power For Living showed me that the way out of my despair was to develop a personal relationship with God. Its message was so strong and so real that it put me on the road to a happier, more fulfilling life. And made fear a part of my past.

 
 
 
 
 
Prostate Cancer
….When I look at my older brother I see someone who lives life to the fullest. Someone who could do anything. But there was a time when I thought that might change. Not long ago he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. But we were fortunate. He survived. The truth is, prostate cancer can affect all men. If you are African American or over the age of 50, you're at higher risk. But there is good news, too. Prostate cancer has one of the highest survival rates of any type of cancer. Learn what you need to know. Call the American Cancer Society at 1-800 ACS 2345….that's 1-800-ACS 2345. Prostate cancer…get the facts.

 
 
 
 
 
PSA A&T
This is a public service announcement brought to you by the collegiate chapter of NAACP at North Carolina agricultural and technical state university

 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric Institute Of Washington
If someone you love just isn’t themselves -- and hasn’t been for a while -- they could be suffering from depression. People who are depressed wake up that way in the morning and go to bed that way at night. Some think of killing themselves to the stop the pain. If you think someone you love is depressed, or wants to die, call the Psychiatric Institute. We’ll help them find a better way to stop the pain. THE PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE. Call 1-800-249-7098.

 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric Institute of Washington
Psychiatric Institute Of Washington
If someone you love just isn’t themselves -- and hasn’t been for a while -- they could be suffering from depression. People who are depressed wake up that way in the morning and go to bed that way at night. Some think of killing themselves to the stop the pain. If you think someone you love is depressed, or wants to die, call the Psychiatric Institute. We’ll help them find a better way to stop the pain. THE PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE. Call 1-800-249-7098.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Race For The Cure
It was a face to remember: a woman in a pink hat crossing the finish line of a Race for the Cure event. The pink hat meant she was a survivor. She’d won her own personal race against breast cancer. And now she ran with thousands of others to let the world know how important it is to stop this disease. Race for the Cure raises awareness and much-needed funds for breast cancer research, education, screening, and treatment. And Ford division and its dealers across the country have joined the Race to help any way they can/ Because of all the races we watch or run, this is one race that has to be won. To get involved in t Race for the Cure event near you, call 1-888-603-RACE.

 
 
 
 
 
Red Cross
When you make a financial donation to the Red Cross, it goes to support those who need it most. The people you help might even be from your own neighborhood when emergencies strike. Please contact your local American Red Cross chapter today. 212-GIVE-RED

 
 
 
 
 
Red Cross "Blanket"
You don't think much about it
You never dwell on how it was made
It's just a blanket after all
But when everything else has been lost
The comfort it provides.. is immeasurable
The American Red Cross brings hope and help to people in need
Every eight minutes every day
So this season, give something that means something
Support us at redcross.org.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Save The Children
You promised yourself you’d do something, someday. Now you can keep your promise. It doesn’t take much to help needy children around the world. Just $20 a month and a lot of love. That’s all you need to be a Save The Children sponsor. This is not a handout; it’s a hand up. Clean water, nutritious food, and education -- for just 65 cents a day, you’ll help make changes that last a lifetime. Experience the joy of keeping a very important promise.

 
 
 
 
 
School Kids Bonus
If the cost of your kids education is weighing you down, there is a way to lighten the load - The School Kids Bonus. If you receive a family or income support payment, you could be eligible for $410 a year for primary students, $820 for secondary students. Half paid automaticaly in January; The other half in July. For more information go to Australia.gov.au/school kids bonus. Auithorised by the Australian Government, Canberra.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Seeds
Travel is a great privilege, and Adventure Associates is committed to donating services or money to local communities or organizations in the areas we travel. One such organization is a non-profit called Social Educational Environmental Development Services or SEEDS, which provides basic grass-roots relief projects for Nepal’s poorest communities. Wherever possible, our participants will have the opportunity to meet representatives of these organizations and become familiar with their work. Please call Adventure Associates to find out how you can make financial contributions.

 
 
 
 
 
Slip and Fall Accidents
It happens every day...in hotels, in restaurants, and other public places...without warning. It's responsible for 20,000 fatalities and it's the second leading cause of death and disability. Slip and fall accidents. Learn how to protect your rights if it happens to you. Tonight at 11 on Eyewitness News.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Smoke Alarm
A smoke alarm can save your life but not if it's silent. Over 60% of fire fatalities and countless injuries happen where smoke alarms are installed but fail to work. Remember, only working smoke alarms save lives so sound the alarm to your family and friends, a silent smoke alarm may be the last thing they never hear.

 
 
 
 
 
Sprint Unlimited Data
You might not know you have unlimited data. An email. That’s ten kilobytes of data. Loading a weather site that tells you what you already know. 400. An endless email chain and your daily blog tour and you’re at a megabyte. Megabytes quickly stack on megabytes. A meg here and a meg there to avenge those watermelons once and for all. A few megs per download for an app and another app and another app. Soon you’re at gigabytes and all other sorts of bytes. It’s now you should ask yourself, “Why does any of this matter? Why can’t I have unlimited data?” Funny you should ask. Only Sprint offers truly unlimited data. Welcome to a world without limits. Sprint.

 
 
 
 
 
 
St. Jude Children’s Hospital
Time is running out for this child ... you see, Andre’s cancer won’t wait for a cure. He has retinoblastoma, which has already taken the sight in his left eye. That’s why we’re asking for your urgent help. Time may be running out, but it’s not too late! Please -- open your heart. Andre needs your help to live. Send your donation today, or call St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital at 1-800-931-0500. There isn’t a second to lose!

 
 
 
 
 
St. Jude Children’s Hospital 2
Each year, more than 6,000 children like Adam learn all about cancer and other catastrophic illnesses when they’re stricken with deadly diseases. Fortunately, these children have a fighting chance at surviving cancer--the No. 1 killer disease of children--because of strides St. Jude doctors and scientists are making every day in treatment and research. With your support, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital is helping children all over the world live. To find out more about St. Jude’s life-saving work, call 1-800-877-5833.

 
 
 
 
 
Stanford Hospitals & Clinics
Stanford Hospitals and Clinics - over 50 specialty clinics and more than 900 phsycians. All using the latest techologies and treatments. Stanford Hospital and Clincs - treating every and every condition with the same world class care.

 
 
 
 
 
Starlight Starbright Children’s Foundation
Make a seriously ill child’s smile this bright. When you choose Colgate-Palmolive products, you help bring FUN CENTERS and other great programs to kids through a $500,000 donation to the Starlight Starbright Children’s Foundation, a non-profit organization that works with seriously ill children and their families. For more ways to help, go to www.colgate.com/starlightstarbright.

 
 
 
 
 
Start Small
You don't have to deliver 15 tons of food to the hungry...

You can start with 12 ounces.

You don't have to dedicate your life to saving lives...

Just dedicated 15 minutes.

You don't need to provide guidance to 5000 young men and women...

Just one will do.

You don't have to build a school in an impoverished area to change a child's life...

Just spend an hour a week reading at one.

The men and women of America's Navy do some amazing things to make the world a better place.

But then again, so can millions of everyday Americans right in their own backyards.

Brought to you by America's Navy.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Stay In School
You think you don’t get a lot of dates now, imagine this: dropouts make 42% less than graduates. Good luck with that. Stay in school. Give yourself a chance. Go to operationgraduation.com. Sponsored by the US army and the ad council.

 
 
 
 
 
Stuttering Foundation Of America
Country music star Mel Tillis has entertained audiences around the world. Mel still copes with stuttering, but it hasn’t kept him from a highly successful career as an entertainer and recording artist. For more information on what you can do about stuttering, write or call us toll-free. Stuttering Foundation of America. Since 1947--Helping Those Who Stutter. A non-profit organization.

 
 
 
 
 
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome claims the lives of nearly 6,000 infants in the United States every year. In fact, SIDS is the leading cause of death in infants one month to one year old. Talk to your doctor about SIDS and how you can help reduce the risk. For more information, call toll free...1-800-505-CRIB.

 
 
 
 
 
Susan G Komen Breast Cancer Foundation (2)
Tomorrow, families will have to cope without a mother, a wife, or a daughter. Today, there is something you can do. Run, walk, donate. Together we can help create a tomorrow without breast cancer. Please join EDS in proudly supporting the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation in our promise to race for a cure.

 
 
 
 
 
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation
We can live without our hair. We can live without our breasts. We cannot live without our hope for a cure. Support our Race against breast cancer. For more information visit komen.org/health or call 1.888.603.RACE. Race for the Cure presented by Yoplait.

 
 
 
 
 
Sustainable Forestry Initiative
When forest products are your business, planting 1.7 million trees every day is smart investment. The Sustainable Forestry Initiative program is dedicated to the future of the nation's forests, as well as the challenge of preserving rare and endangered forests around the world. Respect for nature and sound business practices are integrated to the benefit of the environment, landowners, shareholders, customers and the people they serve. And that allows us to meet the demand for wood and paper products, while helping to ensure our forest will be around forever. Sustainable Forestry Initiative. Growing tomorrow's forests today.

 
 
 
 
 
Sylvan Learning Center
You can’t understand it for her. You try tutors, you try friends ... that’s why I asked her teacher about Sylvan. Sylvan is a great partner for a teacher to have. Sylvan gave Cindy the boost she needed. As a mother and an educator, I couldn’t do what Sylvan did. SYLVAN LEARNING CENTER. Call 1-800-EDUCATE for the center nearest you. That’s 1-800-EDUCATE.

 
 
 
 
 
Talk. They’ll Listen
All Parents have hopes and dreams for their kids. But one thing is certain about their future. It will be brighter, if it is healthier. Talk to your kids about not smoking. They’ll listen.

 
 
 
 
 
The American Legion's Commitment to America
The American Legion. We’re a powerful force for the nation. We pledge ourselves to our veterans, our youth, a strong national defense and Americanism. The four pillars shape our work and what we do for America. We work relentlessly within our four pillars of service...and ...we succeed.

As the largest veterans organization in the nation, we have the numbers and power to influence our leaders in Washington, D.C. to enact laws that make sense for America. And to make sure our veterans receive the care and benefits they have earned and have been promised. And we have over fourteen thousand American Legion posts sponsoring youth programs and promoting patriotism and American values all across this great country.

We’re proud of our service to our country in uniform during times of war and we’re honored to continue to serve through our membership in the American Legion. Go to Legion.org (legion dot org) to find out more about the American Legion’s commitment of service to America.

[ Direction note: 60s radio PSA ]

U/L by TxTom

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Boys and girls club of america
Put this card in the hand of a child and there"ll be no room for a gun, a needle or a knife. It's only a piece of paper but that little membership card has helped keep millions of kids off drugs out of gangs and in school. To learn how you can help The Boys and Girls clubs call 1 800 854 Club Boys and girls club of america the positive place for kids.

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Center For Sinus And Nasal Disease
Can’t breathe without them? Over-the-counter nasal sprays and decongestants provide only temporary relief, delay diagnosis, and postpone proper treatment -- and may lead to more serious health disorders. Throw away those over-the-counter medications...and call The Center For Sinus & Nasal Disease today. 1-800-MD-SINUS.

 
 
 
 
 
The Fund For Animals
In the 21st century, compassion is the new fashion. Be a real trend-setter and don’t buy fur coats or fur trim. No matter how you look at it, fur isn’t cool – it’s cruel. The Fund for Animals. We speak for those who can’t. www.fund.org.

 
 
 
 
 
The Jeffrey Model Foundation - Radio :30
JACK: When I grow up, I wanna be a baseball player!!!

VO: Last year Jack was too sick to dream. He has Primary Immunodeficiency, or PI. But thanks to the Jeffrey Modell Foundation, he was properly diagnosed and treated.

JACK: Now I have a chance!

VO: The Jeffrey Modell Foundation. 25 years of helping children reach for their dreams. To learn more, log on to info4pi.org. That’s INFO, the number 4, PI, dot org.

script by jamesromick

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Medical Information Line
How do you know if you’re pregnant? How can you tell if you’re hooked on drugs? Can you have sex and still protect yourself from AIDS? If you need answers, without getting questioned, call THE MEDICAL INFORMATION HOTLINE. You can choose from over 300 medical topics. Calls are just two dollars a minute. Call 1-900-288-1234.

 
 
 
 
 
The National Committee For Prevention Of Child Abuse
If you look at Jessica, there are no visible bruises ... no broken bones ... she seems the picture of the perfect child. But if you look closely, you can see how rejection, fear, and constant humiliation have left scars that have tragically affected her childhood. Remember, you don’t have to lift a hand to hurt your child. Write to THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE, Box 2866E, Chicago, Illinois 60690.

 
 
 
 
 
The National Forestry And Wildlife Association
Every year, thousands of acres of trees are destroyed by fire. Add to this the enormous costs of fighting forest fires, and you can see why forest fires are a national tragedy. Please -- use fire safely, wisely, responsibly. Brought to you as a public service announcement from THE NATIONAL FORESTRY AND WILDLIFE ASSOCIATION.

 
 
 
 
 
The Nature Conservancy
Sea otters were once on the brink of extinction. They’re doing better now, but hundreds of other species are in trouble. Since 1951, The Nature Conservancy has protected millions of acres of habitat for threatened species in all 50 states. So join us. Write THE NATURE CONSERVANCY, 1815 Lynn Street, Arlington, Virginia 22209. Conservation through private action.

 
 
 
 
 
The Pain Game (Workers'Safety)
Maanger: Eh! Lance. Forget the gear. Got no time. Just get it down yourself will yo?

Game show host: Ronnie Winsell! You’re his manager! And today you’re playing for your worker’s safety. By having him keep doing it that way, you’re giving him a big chance to take home a major injury, like this prolapsed disk, that comes with spinal surgery, two weeks hospital and let’s throw in six months rehab. Are you ready to spin now Ronnie?
Injured Worker: Aargh! Eh! eh!

VO: Never take a chance on safety.

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Party's Over
This holiday season the police are throwing a party
Everyone’s invited
There’ll be dress ups, and hats
Some people will get a written invitation
And of course they’ll be keeping a eye on numbers, and checking ID's
There’ll be loud music, flashing lights and they’ll take loads of photos
They've got glow sticks, and endless supply of straws, and lollipops
Of course some will be surprise guests, and others would want to stay on
But you wont have much to celebrate

If you drink or take drugs and drive
If you speed or drive unlicensed, the party’s over

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Pedigree Adoption Drive
I know how to sit, how to fetch and how to roll over. What I don't know is how I ended up in here. But I know that I am a good dog and I just want to go home. When you buy Pedigree we make a donation to help shelter dogs find loving homes. The Pedigree Adoption Drive - help us help dogs.

 
 
 
 
 
Think of what you are really gambling with.
Do you think about gambling most days? Do you ever gamble alone? Do you sometimes gamble more than you afford to lose. These are all sings of someone heading towards a gambling problem. So if you are starting to put your gambling first, time to start thinking about your gambling.

To find out more visit this website www.problemgambling.vic.gov.au or call Gambler;s Help at 1800 156 789. Think of what you;re really gambling with.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Toyota Family Literacy
Sometimes it takes a great idea to give power to good intentions. We think the National Center for Family Literacy is a great idea, and that's why Toyota is proud to be one of its major supporters. Toyota has provided support to more than 150 family literacy programs across America. By supporting NCFL, we hope that the book on missed opportunities will one day be closed forever. To learn more about the great work of NCFL, visit www.famlit.org.www.toyota.com/tomorrow

 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Marines
Duty. Honor. Country. The United States Marines.

 
 
 
 
 
Unicef
UNICEF is offering an internship program in developing issues pertaining to India’s children. Visit unicef.org or call 617-253-8457 for more information.

 
 
 
 
 
Unicef
Imagine what these two quarters could do. Imagine if you could use them to deliver life saving medicine and nutrition directly to a child who would die without it. I can’t imagine a better opportunity to save the life of a child, a child like this:

Banda has no parents, so he and his brother are facing the world all alone. They are too young to take care of themselves. Their drinking water is dirty, and unsafe. It could kill them. They have no medicine, no food, no parents and very little chance. Banda misses his mom so much and he wonders how he’ll go on without her. Banda desperately needs our help just to survive.

Please go online or call now and join UNICEF for just 15 dollars a month. It’s only 50 cents a day and it means you can get children like Banda the help they need to survive. Emergency care is delivered every single day of the year to children who could die without it. Things like nutrition, vaccines and antimalarial bagnetts. That’s what your 50 cents a day buys. The real things that children desperately need to survive.

These two quarters. It’s never been easier to save the life of a child. But only if you go online at Unicef.com or call 1-888-705-0002.

For children like Banda, please do it now.

 
 
 
 
 
 
United Healthcare Agency
"It got you into this situation. It can get you out." People who talk with their doctor are much more motivated to lose weight than those who don't. At United Health Foundation, we believe that the more you know, the healthier you will be. Which is why we partnered with the US AGENCY FOR HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY to bring you these important health tips. We encourage you to get more involved in your care, to seek out information and to always make sure that the information you use comes from a reliable, evidence-based source. To find out more on this and other important topics, visit UHFtips.org.

 
 
 
 
 
United Nations Relief Fund
Tonight, two-thirds of the world’s population will go to bed hungry. That’s over three hundred million men, women, and children. To most of us, that’s just a statistic, nothing that really touches our lives. But in many parts of the world, it’s an everyday fact of life and death. It doesn’t have to be that way. Please send a check to the UNITED NATIONS RELIEF FUND. 1 Dag Hammerskjold Plaza, New York, New York 10023. Help us help the hungry.

 
 
 
 
 
USPS Identity Theft PSA
The US Postal Service wants to remind everyone this year to protect themselves from becoming victims of identity theft. Promptly remove incoming mail from your mailbox--and don't give out passwords, pin numbers,or account numbers. To learn more, visit consumer.gov/ncpw.

 
 
 
 
 
Virginia Tech
Virginia Tech is home to the dreams of more than 26,000 students. They come from all 50 states, and over a hundred countries. They come to question, to create, and to understand. They will leave with knowledge, integrity, and an acute awareness of the impact their dreams will have in making our world a better place.

 
 
 
 
 
Walk America
Join Walk America and support the March Of Dimes in their research to help prevent premature birth as the leading killer of newborns. For more information, call your local March Of Dimes chapter or visit WalkAmerica.org

 
 
 
 
 
Wildlife Land Trust
There’s no place like a safe home. We protect wild animals by helping caring landowners establish permanent wildlife sanctuaries. If you have land you want kept safe for wildlife, call us. Your call will take a minute. The results could last forever. Wildlife Land Trust. 1-800-729-SAVE.

 
 
 
 
 
Women's Right To Vote
In the 2000 Presidential election, 22 million unmarried women who were eligible to vote stayed home from the polls. While 68 percent of married women voted, only 52 percent of unmarried women did so. If single women voted at the same rate as married women, millions more ballots would have been cast. Remember 537 votes decided last presidential election. We owe more-we ought to do better and respect ourselves enough to be counted. Vote.

 
 
 
 
 
Women’s Health and Wellness Legislation
The New York Assembly has taken the lead with the Women's Health and Wellness Bill to enact comprehensive legislation to ensure women's health. Specifically, the bill requires insurers to pay for annual breast-cancer detecting mammograms for women beginning at the age of 40, rather than the current age of 50. The legislation also requires preventive screening tests, like routine bone density exams to detect osteoporosis, and it requires that prescription drug plans include coverage for approved contraceptive drugs and devices.

 
 
 
 
 
World Vision - Indonesia
In the urban slums of Indonesia, sometimes it’s hard to be a kid. It’s even harder if you have a disability. One evening three years ago, Dodik fell off his friend’s bike and lost the use of his arms and legs. For many children in Indonesia, education is the only way out of the slums, but for Dodik the only way to get to school was on foot; he couldn’t walk and he couldn’t even hold a pen. Child sponsors help world vision to reach the most vulnerable children from the poorest families; to help them gain access to healthcare and education and to be included in their communities. After months of physical therapy, Dodik started to move his hands, arms and feet. Today, he can walk again. This morning Dodik walked to school for the first time since the accident. Child Sponsorship means more than you think. Sponsor a child today. Call 13 32 40 or visit Worldvision.com.au

 
 
 
 
 
 
World Wildlife Fund
A monkey that can fit on the tip of your finger. A waterfall twice the height of the Empire State Building. And half the medicine known to man. This is the Rain Forest. Every second, another acre of Rain Forest is destroyed ... forever. World Wildlife Fund needs your help. Call 1-800-248-FUND. WORLD WILDLIFE FUND ... for a healthy planet.

 

 
 
 
YMCA Child Care
At YMCA Child Care, every activity and project is designed to spark your child’s imagination and encourage lifelong, positive values. Every discovery strengthens self-confidence and, in turn, the relationship your youngster has with you. This progression is at the heart of our philosophy: Good child care is good family care. We offer full and part time options to give you flexibility, peace of mind and to provide your youngster with a safe, friendly place to learn and grow. Our teachers know how important it is for children to learn to trust others as well as themselves, so groups are kept small. Your child will get the personal attention he or she needs. Call 1800 463 YMCA to find a location near you. YMCA Child Care. We build strong kids, strong families, strong communities.

 
 
 
 
 
Youth Off The Streets
Youth Off The Streets, supported by MAD, has launched this new resource kit to help schools and parents nationwide educate their kids on drug abuse. We urge you to review this recorded series along with the accompanying handout. Illegal drugs can cause serious physical and mental harm which can be permanent. Drug use often leads to addiction and the habit may then be fed by prostitution, burglary, or other violations. Police alone cannot prevent all importation, local cultivation, manufacture, trafficking, and use of drugs. You, your schools, and your community must collaborate