

Hey, only here for sex. If you are down for it, ask for my number : *


What kind of stuff do you like?


Hi Rachel


What up girlll


Hey, it may sound random, but you want to meet up?


Hey, what’re you up to?


This and that. Play music. Exercise. Been hosting a venue in Pilsen. Drink too much. Hbu.


Hi Rachel. Down for anything casual?


Do you have a big booty, Rachel?


Outdoors and drinking, that’s great!


How’s your day been?


You seem funny!


Would you like to meet at a coffee establishment?


Hi, how’s it going? You have really pretty eyes : )


I like the way nobody in the city looks up. I like how different places are when they’re empty, compared to normal. And I guess I like how I’m slightly taller than a lot of people. That’s really it, though. 


Heh, have heard great things about that one. Gotta check it out. Also love me some 30rock and the office.


Down to eat pizza?


You seem great!


Favorite US city?


So. You like reading. What are you reading now?


Cool. What do you do?


How does a double feature of The Room and Troll 2 sound?


We need to get together and practice making the future superbabies of America.


Rogers Park.


What did one snowman say to the other snowman? Do you smell carrots? :-)


I was in Michigan, swimming and drinking.


We should definitely grab coffee or a drink or hummus when you’re free.


My undergrad was in anthropology.


Can improvisers be in a successful relationship? How would you say our relationship is going so far?


I’m a dog in spirit.


What’s something interesting you’ve learned recently?


What’s your favorite color?


It’s bulby and green. If a turnip and some broccoli made a baby, this would be it. 


Stop drop and roll baby, cause you’re on fire! *FIRE EMOJI*


Let’s go on a bike ride sometime.


Your humor may be dry, but I bet the rest of you isn’t.


I’m much cooler than I seem, I promise.


Custom bird food and water containers that latch onto the side of the cage.


Omg lets go on a bike ride, i ride a bmx and street bike


What’s your story?


Should I take that as a no…?


Hello my angel.


I’m one of those jaded, philosophical types. 


Last Friday I took acid and mushrooms. I did not transcend.


In no way did I mean to sound like a creep HAHAHAHAHA


Too much? Maybe I should have held my tounge. 

Where’s that?

Yeah bro.

It was great. First time I had 24 hours off in a while. Got to see my friends and stuff. How was your weekend?

This is why we’re single, Michael.

It was alright. I had a meeting, then I got some drinks with friends.

I have class early in the morning. What are you up to tomorrow night?

Topiary.

What’s the best place to get a burrito?

My week, weekend, month, year, all look horrible. I’m in rehearsal for 4 different shows, and my day job is nuts right now. Can I let you know?

Well, I fell asleep.

I’ll be honest, I’m surrounded by disaffected record store snobs, so dudes who are into sports turn me on now, in a weird way.

Hahahahaha cool. Let me know if you wind up going out. 

You might murder me.

Pizza. You?

Pretty busy. You?

Was hanging out with my roommates and watching a movie. You?

Just saw a movie with my friend and I’m going to go to bed early I think. How about you?

I think it’s weird that Australians call “Sprite” “lemonade”. I think it's weird that in Chicago strangers talk to you on public transit. 

Or we could just take a bike ride.

Sounds relaxing.

Hahahaha thanks. How's your Christmas going?

Did Flaming Lips do that awesome thing with the rodent balls?

Cool! My number is 2037389069. Let me know what works for you.






